FENCES

Screenplay by

August Wilson

Based upon his play
BLACK SCREEN

TITLE: AUGUST WILSON’S FENCES

The screen remains black. The sound of
a truck rumbling along a street. Two
men are heard talking:

Bono (v.o.): Troy, you ought to stop that lying!

mroy (v.o.): I ain’t lying! The nigger had a water-

melon this big. Talking about . . . “What water-
melon, Mr. Rand?” I like to fell out! “What
watermelon, Mr. Rand?” . . . And it sitting there

big as life.
pono (v.o.): What did Mr. Rand say?

mroy (v.o.): Ain’t said nothing. Figure if the nigger
too dumb to know he carrying a watermelon, he
wasn’t gonna get much sense out of him. Trying to
hide that great big old watermelon under his
coat. Afraid to let the white man see him carry

it home.

9780735217867_Fences.indd 1 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

EXT. WYLIE AVENUE, THE HILL, PITTSBURGH—
EARLY SEPTEMBER—MORNING

The rear of the garbage truck, god’s
point of view: Troy Maxson and Jim
Bono hang on to either side of the
truck as it heads toward its next

collection point.

Troy is fifty-three years old, a large
man with thick, heavy hands; it is
this largeness that he strives to fill
out and make an accommodation with.
Together with his blackness, his
largeness informs his sensibilities
and the choices he has made in his
life.

Of the two men, Bono is obviously the
follower. His commitment to their
friendship of thirty odd years is
rooted in his admiration of Troy’s
honesty, capacity for hard work, and
his strength, which Bono seeks to

emulate.

Bono: I’m like you . . . I ain’t got no time for them

kind of people.

troy: Now what he look like getting mad ’cause he see

the man from the union talking to Mr. Rand?

Bono: He come talking to me about . . . “Troy Maxson

gonna get us fired.” I told him to get away from

9780735217867 Fences.indd 2 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

me with that. He walked away from me calling you

a troublemaker. (anxious) What Mr. Rand say?

troy: Ain’t said nothing. He told me to go down to the
commissioner’s office next Friday. They called me

down there to see them.

The truck halts. Troy gets down and
heads for heavy garbage cans at the
curb; Bono uses Troy’s shoulder to

ease himself down.

Bono: Well, as long as you got your complaint filed,
they can’t fire you. That’s what one of them white

fellows tell me.

troy: I ain’t worried about them firing me. They gonna
fire me ‘cause I asked a question? That’s all I
did. I went to Mr. Rand and asked him—“Why? Why
you got the white mens driving and the colored
lifting?” Told him, “What’s the matter, don’t I

count?”

TITLE: THE HILL, PITTSBURGH

TITLE: 1957

troy: You think only white fellows got sense enough
to drive a truck? That ain’t no paper job. Hell,
anybody can drive a truck. How come you got all

the whites driving and the coloreds lifting?

The truck’s white driver watches the

collectors in his side mirror.

9780735217867 Fences.indd 3 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

troy: He told me, “Take it to the union.” Well, hell,
that’s what I done! Now they wanna come up with

this pack of lies.

Bono: I told Brownie if the man come and ask him any
questions . . . just tell the truth! It ain’t
nothing but something they done trumped up on you

"cause you filed a complaint on them.

Bono returns the last empty can. Troy

climbs up on the truck.

troy: Brownie don’t understand nothing. All I want
them to do is change the job description. Give
everybody a chance to drive the truck. Brownie

can’t see that. He ain’t got that much sense.

Bono in place, Troy slaps the truck.
As it starts moving, Troy pulls a
lever and the compactor crushes the

trash.

EXT. SANITATION YARD—AFTERNOON
Men stream out of the yard, Troy and
Bono among them.

How you figure he be making out with that gal be
up at Taylors’ all the time... that Alberta
gal?

troy: Who?

Bono: Brownie!

9780735217867 Fences.indd 4 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

troy: Same as you and me. He getting as much as we is.

Which is to say nothing.

Bono: It is, huh? I figure you doing a little better

than me . . . and I ain’t saying what I’m doing.

troy: Aw, nigger, look here . . . I know you. If you
had got anywhere near that gal, twenty minutes
later you be looking to tell somebody. And the
first one you gonna tell . . . that you gonna want

to brag to. . . is gonna be me.

Bono: I ain’t saying that. I see where you be eyeing

her.

troy: I eye all the women. I don’t miss nothing. Don’t
never let nobody tell you Troy Maxson don’t eye

the women.

BoNo: You been doing more than eyeing her. You done

bought her a drink or two.

troy: Hell yeah, I bought her a drink! What that mean?
I bought you one, too. What that mean ‘cause I buy

her a drink? I’m just being polite.

pono: It’s all right to buy her one drink. That’s what

you call being polite. But when you wanna be buy-

ing two or three . . . that’s what you call eye-
ing her.
troy: Look here, as long as you known me... you

ever known me to chase after women?

BoNo: Hell yeah! Long as I done known you. You for-

getting I knew you when.

9780735217867 Fences.indd 5 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

troy: Naw, I’m talking about since I been married to

Rose?

BoNo: Oh, not since you been married to Rose. Now,

that’s the truth, there. I can say that.

troy: All right then! Case closed.

EXT. THE HILL DISTRICT—TROY AND ROSE’S
STREET—AFTERNOON

Troy and Bono make their way down the
street to a narrow house. A pair of
lawn chairs sit on the small front
porch. They take the short cut through
the side alley into the back yard. It
is Friday, payday, and the one night
of the week the two men engage ina

ritual of talk and drink.

Bono: I see you be walking up around Alberta’s house.
You supposed to be at Taylors’ and you be walking

up around there.

mroy: What you watching where I’m walking for? I ain’t

watching after you.
Bono: I seen you walking around there more than once.

moy: Hell, you liable to see me walking anywhere!
That don’t mean nothing because you seen me walk-

ing around there.

BoNo: Where she come from anyway? She just kinda

showed up one day.

9780735217867 Fences.indd 6 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

mor: Tallahassee. You can look at her and tell she one
of them Florida gals. They got some big healthy
women down there. Grow them right up out the ground.
Got a little bit of Indian in her. Most of them

niggers down in Florida got some Indian in them.

Bono: I don’t know about that Indian part. But she
damn sure big and healthy. Woman wears some big
stockings. Got them great big old legs and hips

as wide as the Mississippi river.

troy: Legs don’t mean nothing. You don’t do nothing
but push them out of the way. But them hips cush-

ion the ride!
Bono: Troy, you ain’t got no sense.
troy: It’s the truth! Like you riding on Goodyears!

Troy cracks the seal of the bottle of
gin, pours some out on the ground...

for the folks that are long gone.

EXT. TROY’S AND ROSE’S BACKYARD—
AFTERNOON

In the center of the yard, a large
tree, two chairs beneath it. A

battered baseball hangs from a rope
tied to a tree limb; a big weathered

bat leans against the trunk.

The yard is bordered on either side by

fences and houses. At the rear,

9780735217867 Fences.indd 7 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

there’s a derelict wooden house with
boarded windows. The remnants of a
fence are strewn between the wild lot
behind the abandoned house and the

Maxsons’ yard.

Materials for a new fence. ..a
couple of wooden sawhorses waiting for
the lumber stacked under a tarp. One
or two chairs of dubious value sit at
one end where the kitchen window opens
onto the porch. An old-fashioned ice
box stands silent guard at the other

end.

Rose maxson comes out onto the porch,
holding a bowl of snap peas. She is
ten years younger than troy. Her
devotion to him stems from the
recognition of the possibilities of
her life without him: a succession of
abusive men and their babies, a life
of partying and running the streets,
the church, or aloneness with its
attendant pain and frustration. She
recognizes troy’s spirit as a fine and
illuminating one and she either
ignores or forgives his faults, only
some of which she recognizes. Though
she doesn’t drink, her presence is an
integral part of the friday night

rituals.

9780735217867 Fences.indd 8 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

RosE: What you all out here getting into?

troy: What you worried about what we getting into for?

This is men talk, woman.

RosE: What I care what you talking about? Bono, you

gonna stay for supper?

Bono: No, I thank you, Rose. But Lucille say she cook-

ing up a pot of pigfeet.

troy: Pigfeet! Hell, I’m going home with you! Might
even stay the night if you got some pigfeet. You

got something in there to top them pigfeet, Rose?

Rosz: I’m cooking up some chicken. I got some chicken

and collard greens.

troy: Well, go on back in the house and let me and
Bono finish what we was talking about. This is men
talk. I got some talk for you later. You know what

kind of talk I mean. Go on and powder it up.
RosE: Troy Maxson, don’t you start that now!

TROY (PUTS HIS ARM AROUND HER): Aw, woman . . . come here.
Look here, Bono . . . When I met this woman
I got out that place, say, “Hitch up my pony,
saddle up my mare . . . there’s a woman out there
for me somewhere. I looked here. Looked there.
Saw Rose and latched on to her.” I latched on to
her and told her-I’m gonna tell you the truth-I
told her, “Baby, I don’t wanna marry, I just
wanna be your man.” Rose told me . . . tell him

what you told me, Rose.

9780735217867 Fences.indd 9 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

rosz: I told him if he wasn’t the marrying kind, then

move out the way so the marrying kind could find me.

mox: That’s what she told me. “Nigger, you in my way.
You blocking the view! Move out the way so I can
find me a husband.” I thought it over two or three

days. Come back—

Rose: Ain’t no two or three days nothing. You was back

the same night.

troy: Come back, told her . . . “Okay, baby . . . but
I’m gonna buy me a banty rooster and put him out
there in the backyard... and when he see a
stranger come, he’1l flap his wings and crow. . .”
Look here, Bono, I could watch the front door by
myself . . . it was that back door I was worried

about.

ROSE: Troy, you ought not talk like that. Troy ain’t
doing nothing but telling a lie.

moy: Only thing is... when we first got mar-
ried . . . forget the rooster . . . we ain’t had
no yard!

pono: I hear you tell it. Me and Lucille was staying
down there on Logan Street. Had two rooms with the
outhouse in the back. I ain’t mind the outhouse
none. But when that goddamn wind blow through
there in the winter . .. that’s what I’m talking
about! To this day I wonder why in the hell I ever
stayed down there for six long years. But see, I
didn’t know I could do no better. I thought only

white folks had inside toilets and things.

10

9780735217867 Fences.indd 10 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

RosE: There’s a lot of people don’t know they can do
no better than they doing now. That’s just some-
thing you got to learn. A lot of folks still shop
at Bella’s.

mroy: Ain’t nothing wrong with shopping at Bella’s.

She got fresh food.

Rose: I ain’t said nothing about if she got fresh
food. I’m talking about what she charge. She

charge ten cents more than the A&P.

troy: The A&P ain’t never done nothing for me. I
spends my money where I’m treated right. I go
down to Bella, say, “I need a loaf of bread, I’11
pay you Friday.” She give it to me. What sense
that make when I got money to go and spend it
somewhere else and ignore the person who done

right by me? That ain’t in the Bible.

ROsE: We ain’t talking about what’s in the Bible. What

sense it make to shop there when she overcharge?

troy: You shop where you want to. I’11 do my shopping

where the people been good to me.

RosE: Well, I don’t think it’s right for her to over-

charge. That’s all I was saying.

Bono: Look here... I got to get on. Lucille be

raising all kind of hell.

roy: Where you going, nigger? We ain’t finished this

pint. Come here, finish this pint.

pono: Well, hell, I am. . . if you ever turn the bot-

tle loose.

11

9780735217867_Fences.indd 11 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

Troy hands him the bottle.

troy: The only thing I say about the A&P is I’m glad
Cory got that job down there. Help him take care

of his school clothes and things.

Rose straightens up. Cory is a sore

subject.

moy: Gabe done moved out and things getting tight
around here. He got that job... he can start

to look out for himself.

RoszE: Cory done went and got recruited by a college

football team.

moy: I told that boy about that football stuff. The
white man ain’t gonna let him get nowhere with
that football. I told him when he first come to me
with it. Now you come telling me he done went and
got more tied up in it. He ought to go and get
recruited in how to fix cars or something where he

can make a living.

RoszE: He ain’t talking about making no living playing
football. It’s just something the boys in school
do. They gonna send a recruiter by to talk to you.
He’ll tell you he ain’t talking about making no
living playing football. It’s a honor to be re-

cruited.

mroy: It ain’t gonna get him nowhere. Bono’ll tell you
that.

pono: If he be like you in the sports . . . he’s gonna

be all right. Ain’t but two men ever played base-

12

9780735217867 Fences.indd 12 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

ball as good as you. That’s Babe Ruth and Josh
Gibson. Them’s the only two men ever hit more

home runs than you.

mroy: What it ever get me? Ain’t got a pot to piss in

or a window to throw it out of.

Rosz: Times have changed since you was playing base-
ball, Troy. That was before the war. Times have

changed a lot since then.
troy: How in hell they done changed?

RosE: They got lots of colored boys playing ball now.
Baseball and football.

Bono: You right about that, Rose. Times have changed,

Troy. You just come along too early.

troy: There ought not never have been no time called
too early! Now you take that fellow... what’s
that fellow they had playing right field for the
Yankees back then? You know who I’m talking about,

Bono. Used to play right field for the Yankees.
Rose: Selkirk?

troy: Selkirk! That’s it! Man batting .269, under-
stand? .269. What kind of sense that make? I was
hitting .432 with thirty-seven home runs! Man
batting .269 and playing right field for the Yan-
kees! I saw Josh Gibson’s daughter yesterday. She
walking around with raggedy shoes on her feet.
Now I bet you Selkirk’s daughter ain’t walking
around with raggedy shoes on her feet! I bet you
that!

13

9780735217867 Fences.indd 13 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

RoszE: They got a lot of colored baseball players now.
Jackie Robinson was the first. Folks had to wait

for Jackie Robinson.

troy: I done seen a hundred niggers play baseball bet-
ter than Jackie Robinson. Hell, I know some teams
Jackie Robinson couldn’t even make! What you
talking about Jackie Robinson. Jackie Robinson
wasn’t nobody. I’m talking about if you could
play ball then they ought to have let you play.
Don’t care what color you were. Come telling me I
come along too early. If you could play

then they ought to have let you play.
Troy takes a long drink.

RosE: You gonna drink yourself to death. You don’t

need to be drinking like that.

troy: Death ain’t nothing. I done seen him. Done
wrassled with him. You can’t tell me nothing
about death. Death ain’t nothing but a fastball
on the outside corner. And you know what I’1l do

to that! Lookee here, Bono . . . am I lying?

Handing Bono the bottle, Troy picks up
the bat and takes a gentle whack at
the tethered ball. He assumes a

batter’s stance.

moy: You get one of them fastballs, about waist high,
over the outside corner of the plate where you

can get the meat of the bat on it

(he swings, smacking the ball hard:)

14

9780735217867 Fences.indd 14 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

And good God!

The ball flies in fast circles around the

tree limb. Troy looks up into the sky.
mroy: You can kiss it good-bye. Now, am I lying?

Bono: Naw, you telling the truth there. I seen you do

it.

mov: If I’m lying . . . that 450 feet worth of lying!
That’s all death is to me. A fastball on the out-

side corner.

RosE: I don’t know why you want to get on talking

about death.

troy: Ain’t nothing wrong with talking about death.
That’s part of life. Everybody gonna die. You
gonna die, I’m gonna die. Bono’s gonna die. Hell,

we all gonna die.

ROSE: But you ain’t got to talk about it. I don’t like
to talk about it.

troy: You the one brought it up. Me and Bono was
talking about baseball... you tell me I’m
gonna drink myself to death. Ain’t that right,
Bono? You know I don’t drink this but one night
out of the week. That’s Friday night. I’m gonna
drink just enough to where I can handle it. Then
I cuts it loose. I leave it alone. So don’t you
worry about me drinking myself to death. ’Cause I
ain’t worried about Death. I done seen him. I
done wrestled with him.

Rose could recite this story herself.

15

9780735217867 Fences.indd 15 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

mroy: Look here, Bono . . . I looked up one day and
Death was marching straight at me. Like Soldiers
on Parade! The Army of Death was marching straight
at me. The middle of July, 1941. It got real cold
just like it be winter. It seem like Death him-
self reached out and touched me on the shoulder.
He touch me just like I touch you. I got cold as

ice and Death standing there grinning at me.
RoszE: Troy, why don’t you hush that talk.

moy: I say . . . “What you want, Mr. Death? You be
wanting me? You done brought your army to be get-
ting me?” I looked him dead in the eye. I wasn’t
fearing nothing. I was ready to tangle. Just like
I’m ready to tangle now. The bible say be ever
vigilant. That’s why I don’t get but so drunk. I
got to keep watch.

Ros (To Bono): Troy was right down there in Mercy Hos-
pital. You remember he had pneumonia? Laying

there with a fever talking plumb out of his head.

troy: Death standing there staring at me . . . carrying
that sickle in his hand. Finally he say, “You want
bound over for another year?” See, just like
that . . . “You want bound over for another year?”
I told him, “Bound over hell! Let’s settle this
now!” It seem like he kinda fell back when I said
that, and all the cold went out of me. I reached
down and grabbed that sickle and threw it just as
far as I could throw it . . . and me and him com-
menced to wrestling. We wrestled for three days and

three nights. I can’t say where I found the strength

16

9780735217867 Fences.indd 16 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

from. Every time it seemed like he was gonna get
the best of me, I’d reach way down deep inside my-

self and find the strength to do him one better.

Rose: Every time Troy tell that story he find different
ways to tell it. Different things to make up

about it.

troy: I ain’t making up nothing. I’m telling you the

facts of what happened. I wrestled with Death for

three days and three nights and I’m standing here

to tell you about it... All right. At the end

of the third night we done weakened each other to

where we can’t hardly move. Death stood up,

throwed on his robe . . . had him a white robe
with a hood on it.

Troy mimics a Klansman’s hood. Bono laughs at

this; Rose does the same in spite of herself.

troy: He throwed on that robe and went off to look for
his sickle. Say, “I'll be back.” Just like that.
“I’11 be back.” I told him say, “Yeah, but
you gonna have to find me!” I wasn’t no fool. I
wasn’t going looking for him. Death ain’t nothing

to play with.

INT. FRONT ROOM—AFTERNOON

Lyons, 34, enters from the street,
guitar case in hand. He is troy’s son
from a previous marriage. Although he
fancies himself a musician, he is more

caught up in the rituals and “idea” of

17

9780735217867 Fences.indd 17 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

being a musician than in the actual
practice of the music. He hears troy’s
voice and heads to the back door,

where he stands, listening.

troy (o.s.): And I know he’s gonna get me. I know I
got to join his army . . . his camp followers.
But as long as I keep my strength and see him
coming... as long as I keep up my vigi-
lance . . . he’s gonna have to fight to get me. I

ain’t going easy.
EXT. THE BACK YARD—AFTERNOON
Bono: Well, look here, since you got to keep up your

vigilance . . . let me have the bottle.

mroy: Aw hell, I shouldn’t have told you that part. I
should have left out that part.

RoszE: Troy be talking that stuff and half the time

don’t even know what he be talking about.
troy: Bono know me better than that.

pono: That’s right. I know you. I know you got some
Uncle Remus in your blood. You got more stories

than the devil got sinners.

troy: Aw hell, I done seen him too! Done talked with
the devil.

RoszE: Troy, don’t nobody want to be hearing all that
stuff.

Lyons comes out on the porch.

18

9780735217867 Fences.indd 18 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

iyons: Hey, Pop.
troy: What you come “Hey, Popping” me for?
iyons: How you doing, Rose?

He kisses her.
iyons: Mr. Bono. How you doing?
Bono: Hey, Lyons . . . how you been?

troy: He must have been doing all right. I ain’t seen

him around here last week.

RosE: Troy, leave your boy alone. He come by to see

you and you wanna start all that nonsense.
troy: I ain’t bothering Lyons.
Troy offers Lyons the bottle.

troy: Here . . . get you a drink. We got an under-
standing. I know why he come by to see me and he

know I know.

zyons: Come on, Pop... I just stopped by to say

hi. . . see how you was doing.
troy: You ain’t stopped by yesterday.

RosE: You gonna stay for supper, Lyons? I got some

chicken cooking in the oven.

As she heads toward the house, Rose
picks up Troy’s apron and gloves from

the back porch, carrying them inside.

iyons: No, Rose . . . thanks. I was just in the neigh-

borhood and thought I’d stop by for a minute.

19

9780735217867 Fences.indd 19 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

moy: You was in the neighborhood all right, nigger.
You telling the truth there. You was in the neigh-

borhood ‘cause it’s my payday.

Lyons: Well, hell, since you mentioned it . . . let me

have ten dollars.

mroy: I’1l be damned! I’1l die and go to hell and play
blackjack with the devil before I give you ten

dollars.

INT. HOUSE—AFTERNOON

Troy heads into the house, making his
way up front to the sitting room.
Lyons pursues, Bono follows. Troy sits
on the sofa, watching Rose set the
table.

pono: That’s what I want to know about... that

devil you done seen.
Lyons: Pop done seen the devil? You too much Pops.
mroy: Yeah, I done seen him. Talked to him too!

RoszE: You ain’t seen no devil. I done told you that
man ain’t had nothing to do with the devil. Any-
thing you can’t understand, you want to call it
the devil.

troy: Look here, Bono . . . I went down to see Hertz-
berger about some furniture. Got three rooms for
two- ninety-eight. That what it say on the radio.

“Three rooms . . . two- ninety-eight.” Even made

20

9780735217867 Fences.indd 20 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

up a little song about it. Go down there . . . man
tell me I can’t get no credit. I’m working every
day and can’t get no credit. What to do? I got an
empty house with some raggedy furniture in it.
Cory ain’t got no bed. He’s sleeping on a pile of
rags on the floor. Working every day and can’t get
no credit. Come back here-Rose’1l tell you-madder
than hell. Sit down... try to figure what I’m
gonna do. Come a knock on the door. Ain’t been
living here but three days. Who know I’m here?
Open the door . . . devil standing there bigger
than life. White fellow . . . got on good clothes
and everything. Standing there with a clipboard in
his hand. I ain’t had to say nothing. First words
come out of his mouth was . . . “I understand you
need some furniture and can’t get no credit.” I
liked to fell over. He say, “I'll give you all the
credit you want, but you got to pay the interest
on it.” I told him, “Give me three rooms’ worth
and charge whatever you want.” Next day a truck
pulled up here and two men unloaded them three
rooms. Man what drove the truck give me a book.
Say send ten dollars, first of every month to the
address in the book and everything will be all
right. Say if I miss a payment the devil was com-
ing back and it’ll be hell to pay. That was fifteen
years ago. To this day . . . the first of the month
I send my ten dollars, Rose’1l1 tell you.

rose: Troy lying.

Rose returns to the kitchen. Troy’s

voice follows her. As she goes about

21

9780735217867 _Fences.indd 21 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

readying the food with a

perfectionist’s care:

mroy: I ain’t never seen that man since. Now you tell
me who else that could have been but the devil? I
ain’t sold my soul or nothing like that, you un-
derstand. Naw, I wouldn’t have truck with the

devil about nothing like that.

Rose brings a plate of cornbread to
the dining table. Lyons has his guitar

out, tuning it.

moy: I got my furniture and pays my ten dollars the

first of the month just like clockwork.

BoNo: How long you say you been paying this ten dol-

lars a month?
moy: Fifteen years!

Bono: Hell, ain’t you finished paying for it yet? How

much the man done charged you?

troy: Aw hell, I done paid for it. I done paid for it
ten times over! The fact is I’m scared to stop

paying it.

roszE: Troy lying. We got that furniture from Mr.
Glickman. He ain’t paying no ten dollars a month

to nobody.

troy: Aw hell, woman. Bono know I ain’t that big a

fool.

yons: I was just getting ready to say . . . I know

where there’s a bridge for sale.

22

9780735217867 Fences.indd 22 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

troy: Look here, I’1l tell you this . . . it don’t mat-
ter to me if he was the devil. It don’t matter if

the devil give credit. Somebody has got to give it.

RosE: It ought to matter. You going around talking
about having truck with the devil . . . God’s the
one you gonna have to answer to. He’s the one

gonna be at the Judgment.
Rose heads back into the kitchen.

Lyons: Yeah, well, look here, Pop... let me have
that ten dollars. I'll give it back to you. Bon-

nie got a job working at the hospital.

mroy: What I tell you, Bono? The only time I see this
nigger is when he wants something. That’s the

only time I see him.

iyons: Come on, Pop, Mr. Bono don’t want to hear all
that. Let me have the ten dollars. I told you

Bonnie working.

troy: What that mean to me? “Bonnie working.” I don’t
care if she working. Go ask her for the ten dol-
lars if she working. Talking about “Bonnie work-

ing.” Why ain't you working?

iyons: Aw, Pop, you know I can’t find no decent job.
Where am I gonna get a job at? You know I can’t

get no job.

troy: I told you I know some people down there. I can
get you on the rubbish if you want to work. I told
you that the last time you came by here asking me

for something.

23

9780735217867 Fences.indd 23 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

tyons: Naw, Pop. . . thanks. That ain’t for me. I
don’t wanna be carrying nobody’s rubbish. I don’t

want to be punching nobody’s time clock

mroy: What’s the matter, you too good to carry peo-
ple’s rubbish? Where you think that ten dollars
you talking about come from? I’m just supposed to
haul people’s rubbish and give my money to you
"cause you too lazy to work. You too lazy to work

and wanna know why you ain’t got what I got.
roszE: What hospital Bonnie working at? Mercy?
Lyons: She’s down at Passavant working in the laundry.

moy: I ain’t got nothing as it is. I give you that ten
dollars and I got to eat beans the rest of the week.

Naw . . . you ain’t getting no ten dollars here.

Lyons: You ain’t got to be eating no beans. I don’t

know why you wanna say that.

moy: I ain’t got no extra money. Gabe done moved over
to Miss Pearl’s, paying her the rent, and things
done got tight around here. I can’t afford to be

giving you every payday.

Lyons: I ain’t asked you to give me nothing. I asked
you to loan me ten dollars. I know you got ten

dollars.

roy (arrackinc) :Yeah, I got it. You know why I got it?

‘Cause I don’t throw my money away out there in

the streets. You living the fast life . . . wanna

be a musician . . . running around in them clubs

and things . . . then, you learn to take care of
24

9780735217867 Fences.indd 24 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

yourself. You ain’t gonna find me going and asking
nobody for nothing. I done spent too many years

without.
Lyons: You and me is two different people, Pop.

troy: I done learned my mistake and learned to do
what’s right by it. You still trying to get some-
thing for nothing. Life don’t owe you nothing.
You owe it to yourself. Ask Bono. He’1ll tell you
I’m right.

iyons: You got your way of dealing with the world
I got mine. The only thing that matters to me is

the music.

troy: Yeah, I can see that! It don’t matter how you
gonna eat . . . where your next dollar is coming

from. You telling the truth there.

iyons (anNoveD): I know I got to eat. But I got to live
too. I need something that gonna help me to get
out of the bed in the morning. Make me feel like
I belong in the world. I don’t bother nobody. I
just stay with my music ‘cause that’s the only
way I can find to live in the world. Otherwise
there ain’t no telling what I might do. Now I
don’t come criticizing you and how you live. I
just come by to ask you for ten dollars... I

don’t wanna hear all that about how I live!
troy: Boy, your mama did a hell of a job raising you.

iyons: You can’t change me, Pop. I’m thirty-four years

old. If you wanted to change me, you should have

25

9780735217867 Fences.indd 25 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

been there when I was growing up. I come by to see
you... ask for ten dollars and you want to
talk about how I was raised. You don’t know noth-

ing about how I was raised.
RoszE: Let the boy have ten dollars, Troy.

troy (70 Lyons): What the hell you looking at me for?
I ain’t got no ten dollars. You know what I do

with my money.

(to Rose)

Give him ten dollars if you want him to have it.
Rose: I will. Just as soon as you turn it loose.

mRoy (REACHING IN HIS Pocker): There it is. Seventy-six
dollars and forty-two cents. You see this, Bono?

Now, I ain’t gonna get but six of that back.
ROSE: You ought to stop telling that lie. Here, Lyons.
She hands him the money.

LYONS (PACKING UP HIS GurTAR): Thanks, Rose. Look . . . I

got to run. . . I'll see you later.

mroy: Wait a minute. You gonna say, “thanks, Rose,”
and ain’t gonna look to see where she got that ten

dollars from? See how they do me, Bono?

LYONS

 

I know she got it from you, Pop. Thanks. I’11

give it back to you.

troy: There he go telling another lie. Time I see that

ten dollars . . . he’1l be owing me thirty more.

Lyons: See you, Mr. Bono.

26

9780735217867 Fences.indd 26 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

ono: Take care, Lyons!
uyons: Thanks, Pop. I'll see you again.
Lyons is out the door.

troy: I don’t know why he don’t go and get him a de-

cent job and take care of that woman he got.
oso: He’1l be all right, Troy. The boy is still young.
troy: The boy is thirty-four years old.
Rose: Let’s not get off into all that.

Bono: Look here . . . I got to be going. I got to be

getting on. Lucille gonna be waiting.

Troy goes to Rose, puts his arm around

her.

troy: See this woman, Bono? I love this woman. I love
this woman so much it hurts. I love her so
much . . . I done run out of ways of loving her.
So I got to go back to basics. Don’t you come by
my house Monday morning talking about time to go

to work . . . ‘cause I’m still gonna be stroking!
Rose: Troy! Stop it now!

pono: I ain’t paying him no mind, Rose. That ain’t
nothing but gin-talk. Go on, Troy. I’1l see you
Monday.

Bono goes through the door. As he

does, Troy calls to him:

troy: Don’t you come by my house, nigger!

27

9780735217867 Fences.indd 27 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

EXT. THE FRONT PORCH—LATE AFTERNOON

Bono walks down the front steps as we

hear...

mroy (0.s.): I done told you what I’m gonna be doing.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY- TROY AND ROSE’S
BEDROOM DOOR—NIGHT

Camera slowly pushes in as we hear
sounds of lovemaking emanating from

inside as we cut to

INT. CORY’S ROOM—NIGHT

Teenager-messy, cleats and football
equipment, books and clothes strewn
about. On his desk, a photo of Cory
and Rose sits next to an envelope with
the logo of The Elizabeth City State

Teacher’s College.

Cory is in bed, pillow clamped over
his head to block the sounds of his
parents

BLACK SCREEN

The darkness fades to light as Rose is

heard singing:

28

9780735217867 Fences.indd 28 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

ROSE (v.0.): . . . Just ask Jesus to be a fence around
you,
And you never have to worry anymore.
Just bow down

Jesus be a fence all around me every day.

INT. TROY’S AND ROSE’S BEDROOM—
MORNING

Rose’s singing hauls Troy up from a

deep slumber

RosE (0.8.): When you get burdened—
Jesus, I want you to protect me
As I travel on the way.

When you get lonely—

He gets slowly out of bed,
disoriented. He looks out of the
window. Rose is in the backyard,

hanging wet clothes on the line.
ROSE: Jesus be a fence all around me every day

Jesus, protect me

As I travel on my way.

INT. SECOND STORY LANDING—MORNING

Troy comes out of the bedroom. He sees

Cory’s bedroom door is closed.

29

9780735217867 Fences.indd 29 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

EXT. BACK YARD—MORNING

Troy comes out of the house feeling
like Superman. Rose is at the foot of
the porch steps, cranking laundry

through a mangle atop a bucket.

Rose: Morning. You ready for breakfast? I can fix it

as soon I finish hanging up these clothes.

troy: I got the coffee on. That’ll be all right. I’1l

just drink some of that this morning.

ROSE (CRANKING THE MANGLE): That 651 hit yesterday. That’s
the second time this month. Miss Pearl hit for a
dollar . . . seem like those that need the least

always get lucky. Poor folks can’t get nothing.

mroy: Them numbers don’t know nobody. I don’t know why

you fool with them. You and Lyons both.
Rose: It’s something to do.

moy: You ain’t doing nothing but throwing your money

away.

Rose stops wringing out the clothes

and takes him on.

Rose: Troy, you know I don’t play foolishly. I just

play a nickel here and a nickel there.
moy: That’s two nickels you done thrown away.

ROSE: Now I hit sometimes . . . that makes up for it.
It always come in handy when I do hit. I don’t

hear you complaining then.

30

9780735217867 Fences.indd 30 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

mox: I ain’t complaining now. I just say it’s foolish.
Trying to guess out of six hundred ways which way
the number gonna come. If I had all the money nig-
gers . . . these Negroes, throw away on numbers

for one week—just one week—I’d be a rich man.

Troy heads inside as Rose brings the
laundry basket to the line and hangs
it.

ROSE (T0 TROY IN THE KITCHEN): Well, you wishing and call-
ing it foolish ain’t gonna stop folks from play-
ing numbers. That's one thing for sure.
Besides . . . some good things come from playing
numbers. Look where Pope done bought him that

restaurant off of numbers.
Troy comes out, cup of coffee in hand.

troy: I can’t stand niggers like that. Man ain’t had
two dimes to rub together. He walking around with
his shoes all run over bumming money for ciga-
rettes. All right. Got lucky there and hit the

numbers
Rose: Troy, I know all about it.

troy: Had good sense, I'll say that for him. He ain’t

throwed his money away.

Troy goes down the steps toward the

ruined fence.

troy: I seen niggers hit the numbers and go through
two thousand dollars in four days. Man brought

him that restaurant down there . . . fixed it up

31

9780735217867_Fences.indd 31 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

real nice . . . and then didn’t want nobody to
come in it! A Negro go in there and can’t get no
kind of service. I seen a white fellow come in
there and order a bowl of stew. Pope picked all
the meat out the pot for him. Man ain’t had noth-
ing but a bowl of meat! Negro come behind him and
ain’t got nothing but the potatoes and carrots.
Talking about what numbers do for people, you
picked a wrong example. Ain’t done nothing but

make a worser fool out of him than he was before.

Rose comes out from behind the hanging

laundry.

RosE: Troy, you ought to stop worrying about what hap-

pened at work yesterday.

troy: I ain’t worried. Just told me to be down there
at the commissioner’s office on Friday. Everybody
think they gonna fire me. I ain’t worried about

them firing me. You ain’t got to worry about that.
(pause)
Where’s Cory? Cory in the house?
(loud)
CORY!
RosE: He gone out.

troy: Out, huh? He gone out ‘cause he know I want him
to help me with this fence. I know how he is. That
boy scared of work. He ain’t done a lick of work

in his life.

32

9780735217867 Fences.indd 32 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

ROSE: He had to go to football practice. Coach wanted
them to get in a little extra practice before the

season start.

mroy: I got his practice . . . running out of here

before he get his chores done.
Rose: Troy, what is wrong with you this morning?

Troy grabs a shovel goes to a corner

of the yard.

Rose: Don’t nothing set right with you. Go on back in

there and go to bed . . . get up on the other side.

mroy: Why something got to be wrong with me? I ain’t

said nothing wrong with me.

ROSE: You got something to say about everything. First
it’s the numbers . . . then it’s the way the man
runs his restaurant . . . then you done got on
Cory. What’s it gonna be next? Take a look up
there and see if the weather suits you... or
is it gonna be how you gonna put up the fence with

the clothes hanging in the yard.
troy: You hit the nail on the head then.

Rrosz: I know you like I know the back of my hand. Come
on in here and get you some more coffee . . . see

if that straighten you up.
(going into the house)
"Cause you ain’t right this morning.

Troy starts to pace out the fence

33

9780735217867 Fences.indd 33 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

line . . . He stops at the sound of a
young girl’s shout which seems to come
from the abandoned house. Troy looks,

listens: Nothing. Then the unsettling

silence is broken by faint

singing

caprieL (0.s.): Yes, ma’am, I got plums
You ask me how I sell them
Oh ten cents apiece—Three for a quarter

Come and buy now .

EXT. SIDE ALLEY—MORNING

Troy heads up the dark alley toward
the street. The singing gets louder,
intermingled with children’s voices,

chanting, mocking the singer.

EXT. THE STREET IN FRONT OF THE HOUSE—
MORNING

Troy sees his brother gabriel coming
down the street, followed by the
neighborhood kids. He is seven years
younger than troy. Injured in world
war ii, he has a metal plate in his
head. He carries an old trumpet tied
around his waist and believes with
every fiber of his being that he is the

archangel gabriel. He carries a

34

9780735217867 Fences.indd 34 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

chipped basket with an assortment of
discarded fruits and vegetables he has
picked up in the strip district and
which he attempts to sell.

GABRIEL (SINGING): ‘Cause I’m here today and tomorrow

I’1l be gone.

As the kids see Troy heading their

way, they scatter.
GABRIEL: There’s Troy . . . Hey, Troy!
troy: Hey, Gabe.

Rose comes out on the porch.

GABRIEL: Hey, Rose!
RosE: How you doing, Gabe?

She continues down the steps, past
Troy, and up to Gabe. Troy looks up
and down the street, embarrassed. One
or two old people are watching from

windows and stoops.
RosE: What you got there?

GABRIEL: You know what I got, Rose. I got fruits and

vegetables.

Rose looks through his basket,
treating the produce carefully.

RosE: Where’s all these plums you talking about?

aBRIEL: I ain’t got no plums today, Rose. I was just

35

9780735217867 Fences.indd 35 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

singing that. Have some tomorrow. Put me in a big
order for plums. Have enough plums tomorrow for

Saint Peter and everybody.

Gabriel shoots an anxious glance to

Troy.
carte, (70 Rost): Troy’s mad at me.

troy: I ain’t mad at you. What I got to be mad at you

about? You ain’t done nothing to me.

caBRIEL: I just moved over to Miss Pearl’s to keep
out from in your way. I ain’t mean no harm by
it.

mroy: Who said anything about that? I ain’t said any-

thing about that.
GABRIEL: You ain’t mad at me, is you?

troy: Naw . . . I ain’t mad at you, Gabe. If I was mad

at you I'd tell you about it.

GABRIEL: Got me two rooms. In the basement. Got my own

door too. Wanna see my key?

He fishes out a key on a string and

shows Rose and Troy.

caprigL: That’s my own key! Ain’t nobody else got a key

like that. That’s my key! My two rooms.

moy: Well, that’s good, Gabe. You got your own

key . . . that’s good.

RoszE: You hungry, Gabe? I was just fixing to cook Troy

his breakfast.

36

9780735217867 Fences.indd 36 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

caBRIEL: I’1l take some biscuits. You got some bis-

cuits?

Rose tries to lead Gabriel by the hand

into the house.

GABRIEL (10 ROSE): Did you know when I was in Heaven
every morning me and Saint Peter would sit down

by the Gate and eat some big fat biscuits?

Troy sees a pair of old ladies across

the street, whispering.

GABRIEL: Oh, yeah! We had us a good time. We’d sit
there and eat us them biscuits and then Saint Pe-
ter would go off to sleep and tell me to wake him
up when it’s time to open the Gates for the Judg-

ment.

Ros: Well, come on, I’1l make up a batch of biscuits.

caBRIEL: Troy . . . Saint Peter got your name in the
book. I seen it. It say... Troy Maxson. I
say... I know him! He got the same name like

what I got. That’s my brother!
troy: How many times you gonna tell me that, Gabe?

GapRIEL: Ain’t got my name in the book. Don’t have to
have my name. I done died and went to Heaven. He
got your name though. One morning Saint Peter was
looking at his book . . . marking it up for the
Judgment . . . and he let me see your name. Got it
in there under M. Got Rose’s name... I ain’t
seen it like I seen yours . . . but I know it’s in

there. He got a great big book. Got everybody’s

37

9780735217867 Fences.indd 37 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

name what was ever been born. That’s what he told

me. But I seen your name. Seen it with my own eyes.

mroy: Go on in the house there. Rose going to fix you

something to eat.

capRIEL: Oh, I ain’t hungry. I done had breakfast with
Aunt Jemimah. She come by and cooked me up a whole
mess of flapjacks. Remember how we used to eat

them flapjacks?

troy: Go on in the house and get you something to eat

now.

capRIEL: I got to go sell my plums. I done sold some

tomatoes. Got me two quarters. Wanna see?

He shows his quarters to Troy, then

pockets them.

GABRIEL: I’m gonna save them and buy me a new horn so
Saint Peter can hear me when it’s time to open the

Gates.
(turning with a sudden violence)

Hear that? Hear that? That’s the hellhounds. I
got to chase them out of here. Go on get out of

here! Get out!
(singing softly)

Well, all you hypocrite members,
You wasting your time away.
My God’s calling for workmens

And you had better obey.

(louder)

38

9780735217867 Fences.indd 38 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

Better get ready for judgment!

Gabriel walks away singing as
neighborhood kids give chase. Troy
starts after him, then stops, looking
at the old ladies, watching. He goes
into the house.

INT. THE KITCHEN—MORNING

Troy comes into the kitchen. Rose,

apron on, is making biscuit batter.

Ros: Where’s Gabe?
troy: He gone off somewhere.

ROSE: He ain’t eating right. Miss Pearl say she can’t
get him to eat nothing.

troy: What you want me to do about it, Rose? I done
did everything I can for the man. I can’t make him

get well. Man got half his head blown away
what you expect?

Troy pours himself a second cup of
coffee.

Rosz: Seem like something ought to be done to help him.

troy: Man don’t bother nobody. He just mixed up from
that metal plate he got in his head. Ain’t no

sense for him to go back into the hospital.

Rose: Least he be eating right. They can help him take
care of himself.

39

9780735217867 Fences.indd 39 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

troy: Don’t nobody wanna be locked up, Rose. What you
wanna lock him up for? Man go over there and fight
the war . . . messin’ around with them Japs, get
half his head blown off . . . and they give hima
lousy three thousand dollars. And I had to swoop
down on that.

Rose: Is you fixing to go into that again?

troy: That’s the only way I got a roof over my

head . . . ‘cause of that metal plate.

Rosz: Ain’t no sense you blaming yourself for nothing.
Gabe wasn’t in no condition to manage that money.
You done what was right by him. Can’t nobody say
you ain’t done what was right by him. Look how
long you took care of him. . . till he wanted to
have his own place and moved over there with Miss

Pearl.

moy: That ain’t what I’m saying, woman! I’m just
stating the facts. If my brother didn’t have that
metal plate in his head . . . I wouldn’t have a
pot to piss in or a window to throw it out of. And
I’m fifty-three years old. Now see if you can un-

derstand that!

He turns and goes to the front door.
He grabs his jacket and hat. Rose is
in the kitchen doorway, holding the

mixing bowl.

Rosz: Where you going off to? You been running out of
here every Saturday for weeks. I thought you was

gonna work on this fence?

40

9780735217867 Fences.indd 40 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

mroy: I’m gonna walk down to Taylors’. Listen to the
ball game. I’1l be back in a bit. I’11 work on it
when I get back.

He goes out the front door, closing it
hard. Rose looks down at the mixing
bowl, surprised that she’s holding it.
She goes to the kitchen trash can and
starts to dump the batter, but she
can’t. She sits at the table. She finds
the ball game on the radio. She gets a
metal cooking sheet, returns to the
table, wipes her hands and starts
lumping batter onto the sheet. Soon
her fingers are covered with batter.
She scrapes vigorously at her hands to
clean them, then stops, her hands
shaking. She exerts her will,
steadying them. CLOSE UP on her hands;

time passes, the light changes.

CUT TO:

INT. KITCHEN—DAY

cory (o.s.): Mama? You all right?

Two hours later. Rose sits, unmoving.
The lumps of dough on the sheet have
hardened. The game is still in
progress. She turns as if waking up.
Cory’s behind her in his muddy workout

clothes, holding his shoulder pads and

41

9780735217867_Fences.indd 41 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

cleats. Rose wipes her hands, switches
off the radio, then carries the baking
sheet to the trash can, scraping off

the ruined biscuits with a knife.

Rose: Your daddy like to had a fit with you running out

of here this morning without doing your chores.
cory: I told you I had to go to practice.

ROSE: He say you were supposed to help him with the

fence.

cory: He been saying that the last four or five Satur-
days, and then he don’t never do nothing, but go
down to Taylors’ . . . Did you tell him about the

recruiter?

He opens the refrigerator and imagines

the possibilities
RosE: Yeah, I told him.
cory: What he say?

Rose: He ain’t said nothing too much. You get up there
and get started on your chores before he gets
back. Go on and scrub down them steps before he

gets back here hollering and carrying on.

Rose tosses the baking sheet in the

sink.

EXT. THE FRONT PORCH—LATER THAT DAY

Rose, dressed nicely, checks the front

door to make sure it’s locked. She

42

9780735217867 Fences.indd 42 11/1516 1:50 PM
ROSE

ROSE

TROY:

ROSE

TROY:

ROSE

TROY:

ROSE!

‘TROY:

ROSE!

FENCES

picks up a covered pie that she’s put
on one of the chairs. Troy comes

silently up the front steps, grabbing
Rose from behind. Startled, she jumps!

: Troy!
He laughs.

: Go on, now. You liked to scared me to death.
What was the score of the game? Lucille had me on

the phone and I couldn’t keep up with it.
What I care about the game? Come here, woman.
He tries to kiss her.

: I thought you went down Taylors’ to listen to
the game. Go on, Troy! You supposed to be putting

up the fence.
Attempting to kiss her again.

I’1l put it up when I finish with what is at
hand.

: Go on, Troy. I ain’t studying you.

Playfully chasing after her.

I’m studying you . . . fixing to do my homework!
He lunges again, grabs her.

Troy, you better leave me alone.

Where’s Cory? That boy brought his butt home yet?

He’s in the house doing his chores.

43

9780735217867 Fences.indd 43 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

roy (caLLING): Cory!! Get your butt out here, boy!
(with lust in his eyes)
When you coming back?

ROSE (ENJOYING THIS?) I’11 be right back.

roy: When?

Rose: I’m just going down the street.

As Rose leaves, Troy turns, climbs the

steps.

EXT. THE BACKYARD—DAY

Troy comes out of the house. He goes
to the tarp covering the lumber. Cory

comes out onto the porch.

moy: You just now coming in here from leaving this

morning?
cory: Yeah, I had to go to football practice.
troy: Yeah, what?
cory: Yessir.

mox: I ain’t but two seconds off you noway. The gar-
bage sitting in there overflowing . . . you ain't
done none of your chores . . . and you come in

here talking about, “Yeah.”

cory: I was just getting ready to do my chores now,

Pop

44

9780735217867 Fences.indd 44 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

mroy: Your first chore is to help me with this fence
on Saturday. Everything else come after that. Now

get that saw and cut them boards.

Cory takes the saw and begins cutting
the boards. Troy continues working.

There is a long pause.
cory: Hey, Pop . . . why don’t you buy a TV?

troy: What I want with a TV? What I want one of them

for?
cory: Everybody got one. Earl, Ba Bra . . . Jesse!

troy: I ain’t asked you who had one. I say what I want

with one?

cory: So you can watch it. They got lots of things on
TV. Baseball games and everything. We could watch
the World Series.

troy: Yeah . . . And how much this TV cost?

cory: I don’t know. They got them on sale for around

two hundred dollars.

mroy: Two hundred dollars, huh?

cory: That ain’t that much, Pop.

mx: Naw, it’s just two hundred dollars.
(pointing with his pencil)

See that roof you got over your head at night?
Let me tell you something about that roof. It’s

been over ten years since that roof was last

45

9780735217867 Fences.indd 45 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

tarred. See now... the snow come this winter
and sit up there on that roof like it is... and
it’s gonna seep inside. It’s just gonna be a lit-
tle bit . . . ain’t gonna hardly notice it. Then
the next thing you know, it’s gonna be leaking all
over the house. Then the wood rot from all that
water and you gonna need a whole new roof. Now,

how much you think it cost to get that roof tarred?
cory (stops sawinc): I don’t know.

mroy: Two hundred and sixty-four dollars . . . cash
money. While you thinking about a TV, I got to be
thinking about the roof . . . and whatever else
go wrong around here. Now if you had two hundred
dollars, what would you do... fix the roof or

buy a TV?

cory: I’d buy a TV. Then when the roof started to

leak . . . when it needed fixing . . . I'd fix it.
Cory hurls a finished plank aside and

grabs the next one.

troy: Where are you gonna get the money from? You done
spent it for a TV. You gonna sit up and watch the

water run all over your brand-new TV.
cory: Aw, Pop. You got money. I know you do.
troy: Where I got it at, huh?
cory: You got it in the bank.

mRoy: You wanna see my bankbook? You wanna see that

$73.22 I got sitting up in there?

46

9780735217867 Fences.indd 46 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

cory: You ain’t got to pay for it all at one time. You
can put a down payment on it and carry it home

with you.

troy: Not me. I ain’t gonna owe nobody nothing if I
can help it. Miss a payment and they come and
snatch it right out your house. Then what you
got? Now, soon as I get two hundred dollars clear,
then I’1l buy a TV. Right now, as soon as I get
two hundred and sixty-four dollars, I’m gonna

have this roof tarred.
cory: Aw . . . Pop!

troy: You go on and get you two hundred dollars and
buy one if ya want it. I got better things to do

with my money.

cory: I can’t get no two hundred dollars. I ain’t

never seen two hundred dollars.

troy: I/1l tell you what . . . you get you a hundred
dollars and I’1l put the other hundred with it.

cory: All right, I’m gonna show you.

troy: You gonna show me how you can cut them boards

right now.

Cory begins to cut the boards. There

is a long pause.
cory: The Pirates won today. That makes five in a row.

mroy: I ain’t thinking about the Pirates. Got an all-

white team. Got that boy . . . that Puerto Rican
boy . . . Clemente. Don’t even half-play him.
47

9780735217867 Fences.indd 47 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

That boy could be something if they give him a
chance. Play him one day and sit him on the bench

the next.
cory: He gets a lot of chances to play.

moy: I’m talking about playing regular. Playing ev-
ery day so you can get your timing. That’s what

I’m talking about.

cory: They got some white guys on the team that don’t
play every day. You can’t play everybody at the

same time.

moy: If they got a white fellow sitting on the
bench . . . you can bet your last dollar he can’t
play! The colored guy got to be twice as good be-
fore he get on the team. That’s why I don’t want
you to get all tied up in them sports. Man on the
team and what it get him? They got colored on the
team and don’t use them. Same as not having them.

All them teams the same.

cory: The Braves got Hank Aaron and Wes Covington.
Hank Aaron hit two home runs today. That makes

forty-three.

troy: Hank Aaron ain’t nobody. That’s what you sup-
posed to do. That’s how you supposed to play the
game. Ain’t nothing to it. It’s just a matter of
timing . . . getting the right follow-through.

Hell, I can hit forty-three home runs right now!
cory: Not off no major-league pitching, you couldn’t.

troy: We had better pitching in the Negro leagues. I

48

9780735217867 Fences.indd 48 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

hit seven home runs off of Satchel Paige. You

can’t get no better than that!

cory: Sandy Koufax. He’s leading the league in strike-

outs.
troy: I ain’t thinking of no Sandy Koufax.

cory: You got Warren Spahn and Lew Burdette. I bet you

couldn’t hit no home runs off of Warren Spahn.

mroy: I’m through with it now. You go on and cut them

boards.
(pause)

Your mama tell me you done got recruited by a

college football team? Is that right?

cory: Yeah. Coach Zellman say the recruiter gonna be
coming by to talk to you. Get you to sign the

permission papers.

troy: I thought you supposed to be working down there
at the A&P. Ain’t you supposed to be working down

there after school?

cory: Mr. Stawicki say he gonna hold my job for me
until after the football season. Say starting

next week I can work weekends.

troy: I thought we had an understanding about this
football stuff? You suppose to keep up with your
chores and hold that job down at the A&P. Ain’t
been around here all day on a Saturday. Ain’t
none of your chores done . . . and now you tell-

ing me you done quit your job.

49

9780735217867 Fences.indd 49 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

cory: I’m gonna be working weekends.

roy: You damn right you are! And ain’t no need for
nobody coming around here to talk to me about

signing nothing.

cory: Hey, Pop . . . you can’t do that. He’s coming

all the way from North Carolina.

troy: I don’t care where he coming from. The white man
ain’t gonna let you get nowhere with that foot-
ball no way. You go on and get your book-learning
so you can work yourself up in that A&P or learn
how to fix cars or build houses or something, get
you a trade. That way you have something can’t
nobody take away from you. You go on and learn how
to put your hands to some good use. Besides haul-

ing people’s garbage.

cory: I get good grades, Pop. That’s why the recruiter
wants to talk with you. You got to keep up your
grades to get recruited. This way I’1l be going
to college. I’1l get a chance

troy: First you gonna get your butt down there to the

A&P and get your job back.

cory: Mr. Stawicki done already hired somebody else

‘cause I told him I was playing football.

mox: You a bigger fool than I thought... to let
somebody take away your job so you can play some
football. Where you gonna get your money to take
out your girlfriend and whatnot? What kind of fool-

ishness is that to let somebody take away your job?

50

9780735217867 Fences.indd 50 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

cory: I’m still gonna be working weekends.

my: Naw . . . naw. You getting your butt out of here

and finding you another job.

cory: Come on, Pop! I got to practice. I can’t work
after school and play football too. The team

needs me. That’s what Coach Zellman say

troy: I don’t care what nobody else say. I’m the
boss . . . you understand? I’m the boss around

here. I do the only saying what counts.
cory: Come on, Pop!

Troy comes right up to Cory, in his

face.
troy: I asked you . . . Did you understand?

cory: Yeah

 

troy: What
cory: Yessir.
moy: Yessir.
cory (pause): Can I ask you a question?

troy: What the hell you wanna ask me? Mr. Stawicki the

one you got the questions for.
cory: How come you ain’t never liked me?

troy: Liked you? Who the hell say I got to like you?
What law is there say I got to like you? Wanna

stand up in my face and ask a damn fool-ass ques-

51

9780735217867_Fences.indd 51 11/1516 1:50 PM
TROY

TROY

coRY

TROY

TROY

coRY

TROY

coRY

TROY:

CORY:

TROY:

CORY:

TROY:

CORY:

TROY:

AUGUST WILSON

tion like that. Talking about liking somebody.

Come here, boy, when I talk to you.
Cory hesitates, then goes to Troy.
: Straighten up, goddamn it!
Cory does.

: I asked you a question . . . what law is there

say I got to like you?

: None.

: Well, all right then! Don’t you eat every day?
Cory looks down.

: Answer me when I talk to you! Don’t you eat ev-

ery day?

: Yeah.

: Nigger, as long as you in my house, you put that

sir on the end of it when you talk to me!
: Yes... sir.

You eat every day.

Yessir!

Got a roof over your head.

Yessir!

Got clothes on your back.

Yessir.

Why you think that is?

52

9780735217867 Fences.indd 52 11/15/16

1:50 PM
FENCES

cory: ‘Cause of you.

troy: Aw, hell, I know it’s ‘cause of me . . . but why

do you think that is?
cory (ugsrvanz): ‘Cause you like me.

troy: Like you? I go out of here every morning
bust my butt . . . putting up with them crackers
every day . . . ’cause I like you? You about the
biggest fool I ever saw. It’s my job. It’s my re-
sponsibility! You understand that? A man got to
take care of his family. You live in my house
sleep your behind on my bedclothes . . . fill you

belly up with my food . . . ‘cause you my son.

Rose is in the kitchen, listening

through the screen door.

troy: You my flesh and blood. Not ‘cause I like you
‘Cause it’s my duty to take care of you. I owe a
responsibility to you! Let’s get this straight
right here... before it go along any fur-
ther... I ain’t got to like you. Mr. Rand
don’t give me my money come payday ‘cause he
likes me. He gives me ‘cause he owe me. I done
give you everything I had to give you. I gave you
your life! Me and your mama worked that out be-
tween us. And liking your black ass wasn’t part
of the bargain. Don’t you try and go through life
worrying about if somebody like you or not. You
best be making sure they doing right by you. You

understand what I’m saying, boy?

cory: Yessir.

53

9780735217867 Fences.indd 53 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

mroy: Then get the hell out of my face, and get on

down to that A&P.

Cory runs up the stairs, yanks open
the screen door to discover Rose,

standing there. He pushes past her,
letting the door slam. She comes out

onto the porch.

ROSE (COMING DOWN INTO THE YARD): Why don’t you let the boy
go ahead and play football, Troy? Ain’t no harm
in that. He’s just trying to be like you with the

sports.

moy: I don’t want him to be like me! I want him to
move as far away from my life as he can get. You
the only decent thing that ever happened to me. I
wish him that. But I don’t wish him a thing else

from my life.
He starts to put away the sawhorses.

mror: I decided seventeen years ago that boy wasn’t
getting involved in no sports. Not after what

they did to me in the sports.

RoszE: Troy, why don’t you admit you was too old to
play in the major leagues? For once... why

don’t you admit that?

troy: What do you mean too old? Don’t come telling me
I was too old. I just wasn’t the right color.
Hell, I’m fifty-three years old and can do better
than Selkirk’s .269 right now!

RoszE: How’s was you gonna play ball when you were

54

9780735217867 Fences.indd 54 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

over forty? Sometimes I can’t get no sense out

of you.

troy: I got good sense, woman. I got sense enough not
to let my boy get hurt over playing no sports. You
been mothering that boy too much. Worried about

if people like him.

Rose: Everything that boy do . . . he do for you. He

wants you to say, “Good job, son.” That’s all.

troy: Rose, I ain’t got time for that. He’s alive.
He’s healthy. He’s got to make his own way. I made
mine. Ain’t nobody gonna hold his hand when he

get out there in that world.

Rose: Times have changed from when you was young,
Troy. People change. The world’s changing around

you and you can’t even see it.

Roy (SLOW, METHODICAL): Woman . . . I do the best I can
do. I come in here every Friday. I carry a sack of
potatoes and a bucket of lard. You all line up at
the door with your hands out. I give you the lint
from my pockets. I give you my sweat and my blood.
I ain’t got no tears. I done spent them. We go up-
stairs in that room at night . . . and I fall down
on you and try to blast a hole into forever. I get
up Monday morning . . . find my lunch on the table.
I go out. Make my way. Find my strength to carry me

through to the next Friday. That’s all I got, Rose.
Troy starts into the house.

mroy: That’s all I got to give. I can’t give nothing

else!

55

9780735217867 Fences.indd 55 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

He goes inside. The door swings shut
behind him. Rose, alone, watching him

go.

INT. CITY HALL—AFTERNOON

We’re moving at a rapid walking pace
looking up at a ceiling fresco of
wpa-era heroic worker figures laying
sewers. The sound of footsteps. The
camera pans down to catch the back of
a white deputy commissioner. He
hurries past various businessmen and
-women, all white, to find troy sitting
in the chair against the opposite

wall, looking nervous, hat in hand.
DEPUTY COMMISIONER: Mr. Maxson?
Troy stands.
DEPUTY CoMMISIONER: The commissioner will see you now.

Close up on Troy’s face.

cut TO

BLACK SCREEN

In the black we hear Troy and Bono.

Bono (v.o.): He told him the same thing he told you.

Take it to the union.

56

9780735217867 Fences.indd 56 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

mroy (v.o.): (excited)
Brownie ain’t got that much sense. Man wasn’t
thinking about nothing. He wait until I confront
them on it... then he wanna come crying se-

niority.
(calls out)

ROSE! HEY ROSE!

EXT. FRONT OF TROY’S AND ROSE’S HOUSE—
AFTERNOON

Troy peacocking, Bono walks beside
him. Across the street, a couple of

people look out of their windows.

Bono: I wish I could have seen Mr. Rand’s face when

he told you.

troy: He couldn’t get it out of his mouth! Liked to
bit his tongue! When they called me down there to
the commissioner’s office . . . he thought they

was gonna fire me. Like everybody else.

pono: I didn’t think they was gonna fire you. I thought

they was gonna put you on the warning paper.

EXT. SIDE YARD—AFTERNOON

troy: HEY ROSE!
(to Bono)

Yeah, Mr. Rand like to bit his tongue.

57

9780735217867 Fences.indd 57 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

pono: I see you run right down to Taylors’ and told

that Alberta gal.
roy (CALLING): HEY ROSE!
(to Bono)
I told everybody. HEY ROSE!
(for Bono)

I went down there to cash my check.

EXT. BACK YARD—CONTINUOUS
Rose sticks her head out of the
kitchen window.

Rose: Hush all that hollering, man! I know you out
here. What they say down there at the commission-

er’s office?

Roy (WITH MOCK PRIDE): You supposed to come when I call

you, woman. Bono’ll tell you that.
(to Bono)
Don’t Lucille come when you call her?

Rose: Man, hush your mouth. I ain’t no dog . . . talk

about . . . “come when you call me.”

Rose pulls her head back in and shuts
the window. Troy, still peacocking,
heads up the steps and makes a show of

opening the back porch door for her.

58

9780735217867 Fences.indd 58 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

TROY (LOUD FOR ROSE TO HEAR): You hear this, Bono? I had
me an old dog used to get uppity like that. You
say, “C’mere, Blue!” . . . and he just lay there

and look at you.

Rose hurries out onto the back porch.

 

End up getting a stick and chasing him away try-

ing to make him come.

Rose: I ain’t studying you and your dog. I remember

you used to sing that old song.

roy (HE siNcs:) Hear it ring! Hear it ring!

Had an old dog his name was Blue.

RosE: Don’t nobody want to hear you sing that old

song.
troy (sINGING): You know Blue was mighty true.

RosE: Used to have Cory running around here singing

that song.
Bono: Hell, I remember that song myself.

roy (SINGING): You know Blue was a good old dog.
Blue treed a possum in a hollow log.
That was my daddy’s song. My daddy made up that

song.

RosE: I don’t care who made it up. Don’t nobody wanna

hear you sing it.
TROY (MAKES A SONG LIKE CALLING A pos): Come here, woman.

Rose: You come in here carrying on, I reckon they

59

9780735217867 Fences.indd 59 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

ain’t fired you. What they say down there at the

commissioner’s office?

TROY (PUTS HIS ARM AROUND ROSE): Look here, Rose... Mr.
Rand called me into his office today when I got
back from talking to them people down there
it come from up top... he called me in and

told me they was making me a driver.
Rosz: Troy, you kidding!
troy: No I ain’t. Ask Bono.

Rose: Well, that’s great, Troy. Now you don’t have to

hassle them people no more.
Lyons comes out from inside.

moy: Aw hell . . . I wasn’t looking to see you today.
I thought you was in jail. Got it all over the
front page of the Courier about them raiding See-
fus’ place . . . where you be hanging out with

all them thugs.

 

Lyons: Hey, Pop... that ain’t got nothing to do

with me. I don’t go down there gambling. I go down
there to sit in with the band. I ain’t got nothing
to do with the gambling part. They got some good

music down there.
mrox: They got some rogues . . . is what they got.
tyons: How you been, Mr. Bono? Hi, Rose.
Bono: I see where you playing down at the Crawford

Grill tonight.

60

9780735217867 Fences.indd 60 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

ROSE: How come you ain’t brought Bonnie like I told
you. You should have brought Bonnie with you, she

ain’t been over in a month of Sundays.

Lyons: I was just in the neighborhood . . . thought

I'd stop by.
troy: Here he come

Bono: Your daddy got a promotion on the rubbish. He’s
gonna be the first colored driver. Ain’t got to do
nothing but sit up there and read the paper like

them white fellows.

Lyons comes down the steps and joins

them.
Lyons: Hey, Pop . . . if you knew how to read you'd be
all right.
Bono: Naw . . . naw. . . you mean if the nigger knew

how to drive he’d be all right. Been fighting with
them people about driving and ain’t even got a
license. Mr. Rand know you ain’t got no driver’s

license?

troy: Driving ain’t nothing. All you do is point the
truck where you want it to go. Driving ain’t

nothing.

Bono: Do they know you ain’t got no driver’s license?
That’s what I’m talking about. I ain’t asked if
driving was easy. I asked if Mr. Rand know you

ain’t got no driver’s license.

mroy: He ain’t got to know. The man ain’t got to know

61

9780735217867_Fences.indd 61 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

my business. Time he find out, I have two or three

driver’s licenses.
LYONS (GOING INTO HIS PocKET): Say, look here, Pop

troy: I knew it was coming. Didn’t I tell you, Bono?
I know what kind of “look here, Pop” that was. The
nigger fixing to ask me for some money. It’s Fri-
day night. It’s my payday. All them rogues down
there on the avenue . . . the ones that ain’t in
jail... and Lyons is hopping in his shoes to

get down there with them.

Lyons takes out a ten dollar bill and
holds it out to Troy.

Lyons: See, Pop . . . if you’d give somebody else a
chance to talk sometime—you’d see that I was fix-
ing to pay you back your ten dollars like I told
you. Here . . . I told you I’d pay you when Bon-

nie got paid.

moy: Naw . . . you go ahead and keep that ten dol-
lars. Put it in the bank. The next time you feel
like you wanna come by here and ask me for some-

thing . . . you go on down there and get that.

Lyons: Here’s your ten dollars, Pop. I told you I
don’t want you to give me nothing. I just wanted

to borrow ten dollars.

moy: Naw . . . you go on and keep that for the next

time you want to ask me.

Lyons: Come on, Pop . . . here go your ten dollars.

62

9780735217867 Fences.indd 62 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

Lyons tries again to hand the money to

Troy.

RosE: Why don’t you go on and let the boy pay you
back, Troy?

iyons: Here you go, Rose. If you don’t take it I’m
gonna have to hear about it for the next six

months.

He hands her the money.
Rose: You can hand yours over here too, Troy.
mroy: You see this Bono, you see how they do me?
Bono: Yeah, Lucille do me the same way.

Gabriel is heard singing

GABRIEL: Better get ready for the judgement!
Better get ready for

Hey! . . . Hey! There’s Troy’s boy!
Lyons: How you doing, Uncle Gabe?
GABRIEL: Lyons . . . The King of the Jungle!

He surveys the backyard, finding Rose,

who’s come to greet him.
caBRIEL: Rose . . . hey, Rose. Got a flower for you.

Gabe rummages in his basket till he
finds a torn-off branch of a rose vine.

He hands it to Rose.

GABRIEL: Picked it myself. That’s the same rose like

you is!

63

9780735217867 Fences.indd 63 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

RoszE: That’s right nice of you, Gabe.
Lyons: What you been doing, Uncle Gabe?

GABRIEL: Oh, I been chasing hellhounds and waiting on

the time to tell Saint Peter to open the Gates.

Lyons: You been chasing hellhounds, huh? Well
you doing the right thing, Uncle Gabe. Somebody

got to chase them.

GABRIEL: Oh, yeah . . . I know it. The devil’s strong.
The devil ain’t no pushover. Hellhounds snipping
at everybody’s heels. But I got my trumpet wait-

ing on the Judgment time.
Lyons: Waiting on the Battle of Armageddon, huh?

aBRIEL: Ain’t gonna be too much of a battle when God
get to waving that Judgment sword. But the peo-
ple’s gonna have a hell of a time trying to get

into Heaven if them Gates ain’t open.

LYONS (PUTTING HIS ARMS AROUND GABRIEL): You hear this, Pop?

Uncle Gabe, you all right!
GABRIEL (LAUGHING WITH LYoNs): Lyons! King of the Jungle.

RosE: You gonna stay for supper, Gabe? Want me to fix

you a plate?

GABRIEL: I’1l1 just take a sandwich, Rose. Don’t want
no plate. Just wanna eat with my hands. I’1l take

a sandwich.

ROSE: How about you, Lyons? You staying? Got some

short ribs cooking.

64

9780735217867 Fences.indd 64 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

Lyons: Naw, I won’t eat nothing till after we finished

playing.
(pause)

You ought to come down and listen to me play,

Pop.
troy: I don’t like that Chinese music. All that noise.

ROSE: Go on in the house and wash up, Gabe... I’1l

fix you a sandwich.
GABRIEL (T0 LYONS AS HE GOES INSIDE): Troy’s mad at me.
Lyons: What you mad at Uncle Gabe for, Pop.

ROSE: He thinks Troy’s mad at him ’cause he moved over

to Miss Pearl’s.

troy: I ain’t mad at the man. He can live where he

want to live at.

Lyons: What he move over there for? Miss Pearl don’t

like nobody.

ROSE: She don’t mind him none. She treats him real

nice. She just don’t allow all that singing.

troy: She don’t mind that rent he be paying
that’s what she don’t mind.

Rose: Troy, I ain’t going through that with you no
more. He’s over there ’cause he want to have his

own place. He can come and go as he please.

troy: Hell, he could come and go as he please here. I

wasn’t stopping him. I ain’t put no rules on him.

65

9780735217867 Fences.indd 65 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

Rose: It ain’t the same thing, Troy. And you know it.
Now, that’s the last I wanna hear about that. I
don’t wanna hear nothing else about Gabe and Miss

Pearl. And next week

(Gabe calls from the kitchen)

 

caprieL (0.s.): I’m ready for my sandwich, Rose.

RoszE: And next week . . . when that recruiter come
from that school... I want you to sign that
paper and go on and let Cory play football. Then
that’1l be the last I have to hear about that.

mroy (10 Rosz AS SHE GOES INTO THE KITCHEN): I ain’t thinking

about Cory nothing.

LyoNs: What . . . Cory got recruited? What school he

going to?

moy: That boy walking around here smelling his
piss... thinking he’s grown. Thinking he’s
gonna do what he want, irrespective of what I
say. Look here, Bono . . . I left the commission-
er’s office and went down to the A&P... that

boy ain’t working down there. He lying to me.

Telling me he got his job back . . . telling me
he working weekends . . . telling me he working
after school . . . Mr. Stawicki tell me he ain’t

working down there at all!

Lyons: Cory just growing up. He’s just busting at the

seams trying to fill out your shoes.

mroy: I don’t care what he’s doing. When he get to the

66

9780735217867 Fences.indd 66 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

point where he wanna disobey me . . . then it’s
time for him to move on. Bono’ll tell you that. I
bet he ain’t never disobeyed his daddy without

paying the consequences.

Troy offers Bono the bottle. Bono

takes it.

pono: I ain’t never had a chance. My daddy came on
through . . . But I ain’t never knew him to see
him . . . or what he had on his mind or where he
went. Just moving on through. Searching out the
New Land. That’s what the old folks used to call
it. See a fellow moving around from place to
place... woman to woman... called it
Searching out the New Land. I can’t say if he ever
found it. I come along, didn’t want no kids.
Didn’t know if I was gonna be in one place long
enough to fix on them right as their daddy. I fig-

ured I was going searching too.

Bono sips, hands the bottle to Lyons,

who takes a big swig.

Bono: As it turned out I been hooked up with Lucille
near about as long as your daddy been with Rose.

Going on sixteen years.

troy: Sometimes I wish I hadn’t known my daddy. He
ain’t cared nothing about no kids. A kid to him
wasn’t nothing. All he wanted was for you to
learn how to walk so he could start you to work-

ing. When it come time for eating . . . he ate

67

9780735217867 Fences.indd 67 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

first. If there was anything left over, that’s
what you got. Man would sit down and eat two

chickens and give you the wing.

Lyons: You ought to stop that, Pop. Everybody feed
their kids. No matter how hard times is . . . ev-
erybody care about their kids. Make sure they

have something to eat.

troy: The only thing my daddy cared about was getting
them bales of cotton in to Mr. Lubin. That’s the
only thing that mattered to him. Sometimes I used
to wonder why he was living. Wonder why the devil
hadn’t come and got him. “Get them bales of cot-
ton in to Mr. Lubin” and find out he owe him

money

tyons: He should have just went on and left when he
saw he couldn’t get nowhere. That’s what I would

have done.

troy: How he gonna leave with eleven kids? And where
he gonna go? He ain’t knew how to do nothing but
farm. No, he was trapped and I think he knew it.
But I’ll say this for him. . . he felt a respon-
sibility toward us. Maybe he ain’t treated us the
way I felt he should have . . . but without that
responsibility he could have walked off and left

us . . . made his own way.

Bono: A lot of them did. Back in those days what you
talking about... they walk out their front
door and just take on down one road or another and

keep on walking.

68

9780735217867 Fences.indd 68 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

tyons: There you go! That’s what I’m talking about.
Troy offers Bono the bottle.

Bono: Just keep on walking till you come to something
else. Ain’t you never heard of nobody having the
walking blues? Well, that’s what you call it when
you just take off like that.

troy: My daddy ain’t had them walking blues! What you
talking about? He stayed right there with his
family. But he was just as evil as he could be.
My mama couldn’t stand him. Couldn’t stand that

evilness. She run off when I was about eight.

EXT. AN ALABAMA COTTON FIELD—DAY

A sharp colorless memory fragment:
TROY’S FATHER, A SHARECROPPER, SEEN FROM BEHIND AS

HE STEERS A PLOW PULLED BY A MULE.

troy (v.o.): She sneaked off one night after he had
gone to sleep. Told me she was coming back for me.
I ain’t never seen her no more. All his women run

off and left him. He wasn’t good for nobody.

EXT. THE BACKYARD—AFTERNOON

troy: When my turn come to head out, I was fourteen
and got to sniffing around Joe Canewell’s daugh-

ter.

69

9780735217867 Fences.indd 69 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

INT. THE KITCHEN—AFTERNOON

Rose sits next to Gabriel, eating a
sandwich, his trumpet on the table.

Rose is listening to Troy.

moy (0.s.): Had us an old mule we called Greyboy. My
daddy sent me out to do some plowing and I tied
up Greyboy and went to fooling around with Joe
Canewell’s daughter. We done found us a nice
spot, got real cozy with each other. She about
thirteen and we done figured we was grown any-
way... So we down there enjoying our-

selves . . . ain’t thinking about nothing.

EXT. A WOODS IN ALABAMA—DAY

Memory fragment, no color: The arms,
shoulders, legs of a teenaged girl,
pushing aside low-growing new foliage,
lying down on leaves; a quick glimpse
of a pretty face; her laughter heard

underneath Troy’s voice:

mroy (v.o.): We didn’t know Greyboy had got loose and
wandered back to the house and my daddy was look-
ing for me. We down there by the creek enjoying

ourselves when my daddy come up on us.

70

9780735217867 Fences.indd 70 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

EXT. BACKYARD—AFTERNOON,

troy: Surprised us. He had them leather straps off the
mule and commenced to whupping me like there was
no tomorrow. I jumped up, mad and embarrassed. I

was scared of my daddy.

EXT. A WOODS IN ALABAMA—DAY

Memory fragment: Troy’s father’s huge
arms tearing at branches, scrabbling
after something that’s scrambling away

from his grasping hands.

EXT. THE BACKYARD—AFTERNOON

troy: When he commenced to whupping on me . . . quite
naturally I run to get out of the way. Now I
thought he was mad ‘cause I ain’t done my work.
But I see where he was chasing me off so he could
have the gal for himself. When I see what the
matter of it was, I lost all fear of my daddy.
Right there is where I become a man... at

fourteen years of age.

EXT. A WOODS IN ALABAMA—DAY

Memory fragment: The teenaged girl,
running, terrified, deeper into the

woods; Troy’s father’s back, his shirt

71

9780735217867_Fences.indd 71 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

being torn open by the stroke of a
leather reins; his arms raised against

further lashing.

troy (v.o.): Now it was my turn to run him off. I
picked up them same reins that he had used on me.
I picked up them reins and commenced to whupping
on him. The gal jumped up and run off . . . and
when my daddy turned to face me, I could see why

the devil had never come to get him

Troy’s father grabs the reins,
lowering his arms; a moment in which

we see his face for the first time.

moy (v.o.): . . . ‘cause he was the devil himself.

INT. THE KITCHEN—AFTERNOON

Gabriel stands with his trumpet,
sandwich in his other hand. Rose is

still sitting, transfixed.

EXT. THE BACKYARD—AFTERNOON

mroy: I don’t know what happened. When I woke up, I
was laying right there by the creek, and Blue
this old dog we had . . . was licking my face. I
thought I was blind. I couldn’t see nothing. Both
my eyes were swollen shut. I laid there and cried.

I didn’t know what I was gonna do.

72

9780735217867 Fences.indd 72 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

He stops, lost someplace inside his
head.

troy: The only thing I knew was the time had come for
me to leave my daddy’s house. And right there the
world suddenly got big. And it was a long time
before I could cut it down to where I could handle

it.

Gabe comes out on the porch. A beat,
then:

Lyons: What you got there, Uncle Gabe?

GABRIEL: Got me a ham sandwich. Rose gave me a ham

sandwich.

troy: I don’t know what happened to him. I done lost
touch with everybody except Gabriel. But I hope

he’s dead. I hope he found some peace.

yons: That’s a heavy story, Pop. I didn’t know you

left home when you was fourteen.
The phone rings inside the house.

iyons: Fourteen’s kinda young to be out on your own.

I don’t know what I would have done.

troy: I got up from the creek and walked on down to

Mobile. I was through with farming.

(stands, goes to a safe place

his bat, leaning against the tree)

Figured I could do better in the city. So I
walked the two hundred miles to Mobile.

73

9780735217867 Fences.indd 73 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

tyovs: Wait a minute . .. you ain’t walked no two
hundred miles, Pop. Ain’t nobody gonna walk no
two hundred miles. You talking about some walking

there.

Bono: That’s the only way you got anywhere back in

them days.

tyons: Shhh. Damn if I wouldn’t have hitched a ride

with somebody!

mroy: Who you gonna hitch it with? They ain’t had no

cars and things like they got now.
Swinging his bat...
troy: We talking about 1918.
Rose comes out onto the porch.
Rose: What you all out here getting into?

roy (ro Rosz): I’m telling Lyons how good he got it.

He don’t know nothing about this I’m talking.

Rosz: Lyons, that was Bonnie on the phone. She say you

supposed to pick her up.
Lyons: Yeah, okay, Rose.

mroy: I walked on down to Mobile and hitched up with
some of them fellows that was heading this way.
Got up here and found out . . . not only couldn't
you get a job . . . you couldn’t find no place to
live. I thought I was in freedom. Shhh. Colored
folks living down there on the riverbanks in

whatever kind of shelter they could find for them-

74

9780735217867 Fences.indd 74 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

selves. Right down there under the Brady Street

Bridge. Living in shacks made of sticks and tar

paper.
Here we go.

troy: Messed around there and went from bad to worse.
Started stealing. First it was food. Then I fig-
ured, hell, if I steal money I can buy me some
food. Buy me some shoes too! One thing led to
another. Met your mama. I was young and anxious
to be a man. Met your mama and had you. What I do
that for?

Lyons is unsure if his father is

joking.

troy: Now I got to worry about feeding you and her.
Got to steal three times as much. Went out one day
looking for somebody to rob... that’s what I
was, a robber. I'll tell you the truth. I’m
ashamed of it today. But it’s the truth. Went to
rob this fellow . . . pulled out my knife
and he pulled out a gun. Shot me in the chest. It
felt just like somebody had taken a hot branding
iron and laid it on me. When he shot me I jumped
at him with my knife. They told me I killed him
and they put me in the penitentiary and locked me
up for fifteen years. That’s where I met Bono.
That’s where I learned how to play baseball. Got
out that place and your mama had taken you and

went on to make a life without me.

Lyons listens, completely absorbed.

75

9780735217867 Fences.indd 75 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

moy: Fifteen years was a long time for her to wait.
But that fifteen years cured me of that robbing
stuff.

(looking at Rose)

Rose’1ll tell you. She asked me when I met her
if I had gotten all that foolishness out of my
system. And I told her, “Baby, it’s you and base-
ball all what count with me.” You hear me, Bono?
I meant it too. She say, “Which one comes first?”
I told her, “Baby, ain’t no doubt it’s base-
ball . . . but you stick and get old with me and
we’ll both outlive this baseball.” Am I right,

Rose? And it’s true.

RoszE: Man, hush your mouth. You ain’t said no such
thing. Talking about, “Baby, you know you'll al-
ways be number one with me.” That’s what you was

talking.
troy: You hear that, Bono. That’s why I love her.

Bono: Rose’1l keep you straight. You get off the
track, she’ll straighten you up.

Rose heads to the kitchen.

ROSE: Lyons, you better get on up and get Bonnie. She

waiting on you.

Lyons: Hey, Pop, why don’t you come on down to the

Grill and hear me play?

troy: I ain’t going down there. I’m too old to be sit-

ting around in them clubs.

76

9780735217867 Fences.indd 76 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

Bono: You got to be good to play down at the Grill.
iyons: Come on, Pop

troy: I got to get up in the morning.

iyons: You ain’t got to stay long.

mroy (stanpinc): Naw, I’m gonna get my supper and go on
to bed.

Lyons: Well, I gotta go. I’1l see you again.
Lyons heads into the house.

troy: Don’t you come around my house on my payday.

INT. THE KITCHEN—LATE AFTERNOON

Rose is cooking.

ROSE: Pick up the phone and let somebody know you com-
ing. And bring Bonnie with you. You know I’m al-

ways glad to see her.
Troy and Bono come into the kitchen.

iyons: Yeah, I’1l do that, Rose. You take care now.

See you, Pop. See you, Mr. Bono.
(calling through the screen door)
See you, Uncle Gabe.
Gabe calls in from outside:
casrre, (0.s.): Lyons! King of the Jungle!

Lyons grabs his guitar and leaves.

77

9780735217867 Fences.indd 77 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

troy (m0 ROSE): Is supper ready, woman? Me and you got
some business to take care of. I’m gonna tear it

up too.
RosE: Troy, I done told you now!
Troy puts his arm around Bono.

mroy: Aw hell, woman... this is Bono. Bono like
family. I done known this nigger since . . . how

long I done know you?
Bono: It’s been a long time.

mroy: I done known this nigger since Skippy was a pup.

Me and him done been through some times.

Bono: You sure right about that.

mroy: Hell, I done know him longer than I known you.
And we still standing shoulder to shoulder. Hey,
look here, Bono . . . a man can’t ask for no more

than that. I love you, nigger.

Bono: Hell, I love you too . . . but I got to get home
see my woman. You got yours in hand. I got to go

get mine.

EXT. MAXSON HOUSE—FRONT PORCH

Bono goes out onto the front porch.
Troy follows. They stop when a helmet
comes flying in Troy’s direction. Cory
standing in the middle of the street,

dressed in his football uniform, he

78

9780735217867 Fences.indd 78 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

gives Troy a hard, uncompromising
look.

cory: What you do that for, Pop?
Rose comes out.

Rose: What’s the matter? Cory . . . what’s the mat-

ter?

cory: Papa done went up to the school and told Coach
Zellman I can’t play football no more. Wouldn’t
even let me play the game. Told him to tell the

recruiter not to come.
Rose: Troy

mroy: What you Troying me for. Yeah, I did it. And the
boy know why I did it.

cory: Why you wanna do that to me? That was the one

chance I had.

Rose: Ain’t nothing wrong with Cory playing football,
Troy.

troy: The boy lied to me. I told the nigger if he
wanna play football . . . to keep up his chores
and hold down that job at the A&P. That was the
conditions. Stopped down there to see Mr. St-

awicki

cory: I can’t work after school during the football
season, Pop! I tried to tell you that Mr. Stawic-
ki’s holding my job for me. You don’t never want
to listen to nobody. And then you wanna go and do

this to me!

719

9780735217867 Fences.indd 79 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

troy: I ain’t done nothing to you. You done it to

yourself

Gabriel is standing across the street.
He lifts the trumpet to his lips and

tries to blow. No sound comes out.

cory: Just ‘cause you didn’t have a chance! You just

scared I’m gonna be better than you, that’s all.
Troy comes down onto the street. Cory
backs away a little.

troy: Come here.
Cory reluctantly goes over to Troy.

ROSE (COMING DOWN THE sTEPs): Troy

mroy: All right! See. You done made a mistake.

cory: I didn’t even do nothing!

mroy: I’m gonna tell you what your mistake was.

The football helmet is on the street
next to Troy. He kicks it with his foot
and sends it tumbling down the hill.

mor: See . . . you swung at the ball and didn’t hit
it. That’s strike one. See, you in the batter’s box

now. You swung and you missed. That’s strike one.

Troy closes the distance, his face
leering, terrifying. Cory tries not to

flinch. Troy hisses in Cory’s ear:

troy: Don’t you strike out!

80

9780735217867 Fences.indd 80 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

EXT. BACKYARD—THE FOLLOWING
MORNING

CLOSE UP: We see a baseball swinging
like a pendulum, in and out of focus.
Cory is at the tree hitting the ball
with the bat. He tries to mimic Troy
but his swing is awkward, less sure.
Rose watches . . . Cory swings again,

misses.
RosE: Cory, I want you to help me with this cupboard.

cory: I ain’t quitting the team. I don’t care what

Poppa say.

Rose: I’1l talk to him when he gets back. He had to
go see about your Uncle Gabe. The police done ar-
rested him. Say he was disturbing the peace.
He’ll be back directly. Come on in here and help

me clean out the top of this cupboard.

Cory goes into house. Rose sees Troy
and Bono enter the backyard from the

side yard.
Rose: Troy . . . What they say down there?

troy: Ain’t said nothing. I give them fifty dollars and
they let him go. I'll talk to you about it.

Where’s Cory?

Rose: He’s in there helping me clean out these cup-

boards.

troy: Tell him to get his butt out here.

81

9780735217867_Fences.indd 81 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

Rose goes into the house. Troy and
Bono make their way over to the pile

of wood.

roy: All they want is the money. That makes six or
seven times I done went down there and got him.

See me coming they stick out their hands.

Bono: Yeah. I know what you mean. That’s all they care
about... that money. They don’t care about

what's right.
(pause)

Nigger, why you got to go and get some hard
wood? You ain’t doing nothing but building a lit-
tle old fence. Get you some soft pine wood. That's

all you need.

rox: I know what I’m doing. This is outside wood. You
put pine wood inside the house. Pine wood is in-
side wood. This here is outside wood. Now you

tell me where the fence is gonna be?

Bono: You don’t need this wood. You can put it up with
pine wood and it’1ll stand as long as you gonna be

here looking at it.

troy: How you know how long I’m gonna be here, nigger?
Hell, I might just live forever. Live longer than

old man Horsely.
pono: That’s what Magee used to say.

moy: Magee’s a damn fool. Now you tell me who you

82

9780735217867 Fences.indd 82 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

ever heard of gonna pull their own teeth with a

pair of rusty pliers.

Bono: The old folks . . . my granddaddy used to pull
his teeth with pliers. They ain’t had no dentists
for the colored folks back then.

troy: Get clean pliers! You understand? Clean pliers!
Sterilize them! Besides we ain’t living back
then. All Magee had to do was walk over to Doc
Goldblum’ s.

They start to work... or not.

Bono: I see where you and that Tallahassee gal
that Alberta . . . I see where you all done got
tight.

troy: What you mean “got tight”?

Bono: I see where you be laughing and joking with her

all the time.

troy: I laughs and jokes with all of them, Bono. You

know me.

Bovo: That ain’t the kind of laughing and joking I’m
talking about.

Cory comes out from the house.
cory: How you doing, Mr. Bono?

troy: Get that saw from Bono and cut some wood. He

talking about the wood’s too hard to cut.

(to Bono)

83

9780735217867 Fences.indd 83 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

Stand back there, Jim, and let that young boy

show you how it’s done.
Bono: He’s sure welcome to it.

Cory goes to Bono, who hands him the
saw. Cory saws fast finishing in
seconds, puts the next board in place

and saws.

Bono: Whew-e-e! Look at that. Big old strong boy. Look
like Joe Louis. Hell, must be getting old the way
I'm watching that boy whip through that wood.

cory: I don’t see why Mama want a fence around the

yard noways.

mroy: Damn if I know either. What the hell she keeping

out with it? She ain’t got nothing nobody want.

Bono: Some people build fences to keep people out
and other people build fences to keep people in.

Rose wants to hold on to you all. She loves you.

moy: Hell, nigger, I don’t need nobody to tell me my
wife loves me. Cory . . . go on in and see if you

can find that other saw.
cory: Where’s it at?
troy: I said find it! Look for it till you find it!

Cory goes into the house. Troy turns

to Bono
troy: What’s that supposed to mean? Wanna keep us in?

BONO (BONO LEADS TROY OUT OF EARSHOT): Troy . . . I done

84

9780735217867 Fences.indd 84 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

known you seem like damn near my whole life. You
and Rose both. I done know both of you all for
a long time. I remember when you met Rose. When
you was hitting them baseballs out the park. A
lot of them old gals was after you then. You had
the pick of the litter. When you picked Rose, I

was happy for you. That was the first time I knew

you had any sense. I said... My man Troy
knows what he’s doing... I’m gonna follow
this nigger . . . he might take me somewhere. I

been following you too. I done learned a whole
heap of things about life watching you. I done
learned how to tell where the shit lies. How to
tell it from the alfalfa. You done learned me a
lot of things. You showed me how to not make the
same mistakes . . . to take life as it comes
along and keep putting one foot in front of the

other.
(pause)
Rose a good woman, Troy.

troy: Hell, nigger, I know she a good woman. I been
married to her for eighteen years. What you got

on your mind, Bono?

Bono: I just say she a good woman. Just like I say

anything. I ain’t got to have nothing on my mind.

troy: You just gonna say she a good woman and leave
it hanging out there like that? Why you telling

me she a good woman?

Bono: She loves you, Troy. Rose loves you.

85

9780735217867 Fences.indd 85 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

troy: You saying I don’t measure up. That’s what you
trying to say. I don’t measure up ‘cause I’m see-

ing this other gal. I know what you trying to say.

pono: I know what Rose means to you, Troy. I’m just

trying to say I don’t want to see you mess up.

mroy: Yeah, I appreciate that, Bono. If you was mess-
ing around on Lucille I’d be telling you the same

thing.

Bono: Well, that’s all I got to say. I just say that

because I love you both.
Troy takes this in.

mroy: Hell, you know me . . . I wasn’t out there look-
ing for nothing. You can’t find a better woman
than Rose. I know that. But seems like this woman
just stuck on to me where I can’t shake her loose.
I done wrestled with it, tried to throw her off
me . . . but she just stuck on tighter. Now she’s

stuck on for good.

Bono: You’s in control . . . that’s what you tell me

all the time. You responsible for what you do.

moy: I ain’t ducking the responsibility of it. As
long as it sets right in my heart . .. then I’m
okay. ‘Cause that’s all I listen to. It’ll tell
me right from wrong every time. And I ain't
talking about doing Rose no bad turn. I love
Rose. She done carried me a long ways and I love

and respect her for that.

pono: I know you do. That’s why I don’t want to see

86

9780735217867 Fences.indd 86 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

you hurt her. But what you gonna do when she find
out? What you got then? If you try and juggle both
of them . . . sooner or later you gonna drop one

of them. That’s common sense.

mroy: Yeah, I hear what you saying, Bono. I been try-

ing to figure a way to work it out.

BoNo (LEANING IN. . .): Work it out right, Troy. I
don’t want to be getting all up between you and
Rose’s business . . . but work it so it come out

right.

troy: Aw hell, I get all up between you and Lucille’s
business. When you gonna get that woman that re-
frigerator she been wanting? Don’t tell me you
ain’t got no money now. I know who your banker is.
Mellon don’t need that money bad as Lucille want

that refrigerator. I’1l tell you that.

pono: Tell you what I’1l do... when you finish
building this fence for Rose . . . 1711 buy Lu-

cille that refrigerator.
troy: You done stuck your foot in your mouth now!

Troy stands up, grabs up a board and
begins to saw. Bono starts to walk out

of the yard.
mor: Hey, nigger . . . where you going?

Bono: I’m going home. I know you don’t expect me to
help you now. I’m protecting my money. I wanna
see you put up that fence by yourself. That’s

what I want to see.

87

9780735217867 Fences.indd 87 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

(climbing the steps)
You'll be here another six months without me.
mroy: Nigger, you ain’t right

Bono: When it comes to my money... I’m right as

fireworks on the Fourth of July.

mroy (CALLING AFTER HIM): All right, we gonna see now.

You better get out your bankbook

INT. BASEMENT—AFTERNOON

Cory sits on a crate, doing curls with
barbells made from cans, cement and a
pipe, an old saw in the dirt at his

feet. Above him, Bono’s footsteps and

the kitchen door open and shut.

EXT. THE BACKYARD—AFTERNOON
Troy continues to work. Rose comes out
from the kitchen

Rose: What they say down there? What’s happening with
Gabe?

mroy: I went down there and got him out. Cost me fifty
dollars. Say he was disturbing the peace. Judge
set up a hearing for him in three weeks. Say to

show cause why he shouldn’t be recommitted.

Rose: Well, what’s you say? What’d you tell the judge?

88

9780735217867 Fences.indd 88 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

troy: Told him I’d look after him. It didn’t make no
sense to recommit the man. He stuck out his big
greasy palm, and told me to give him fifty dollars

and take him on home.
Rose: Where’s he at now? Where’d he go off to?

troy: He’s gone on about his business. He don’t need

nobody to hold his hand.

RosE: Well, I don’t know. Seem like that would be the
best place for him if they did put him into the
hospital. I know what you're gonna say. But that’s
what I think would be best.

troy: The man done had his life ruined fighting for
what? And they wanna take and lock him up. Let him
be free. He don’t bother nobody.

RosE: Well, everybody got their own way of looking at
it I guess. Come on and get your lunch. I got a
bowl of lima beans and some cornbread in the
oven. Come on get something to eat. Ain’t no

sense you fretting over Gabe.
mroy: Rose . . . got something to tell you.

ROSE: Well, come on. . . wait till I get this food

on the table.

Rose turns to go into the house. Troy

follows.

89

9780735217867 Fences.indd 89 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

INT. KITCHEN—AFTERNOON

Troy: Rose.
She turns around.

mroy: I don’t know how to say this.
(pause)

I can’t explain it none. It just sort of grows
on you till it gets out of hand. It starts out
like a little bush . . . and the next thing you

know it’s a whole forest.
Rose: Troy . . . what is you talking about?

troy: I’m talking, woman, let me talk. I’m trying to
find a way to tell you . . . I’m gonna be a daddy.
I’m gonna be somebody’s daddy.

Rose: Troy . . . you're not telling me this? You're
gonna be . . . what?
troy: Rose . . . now... see

Rose: You telling me you gonna be somebody’s daddy?

You telling your wife this?

From out in the back yard, Gabriel

calls:
casRIEL (0.s.): Hey, Troy! Hey, Rose!

ROSE: I have to wait eighteen years to hear something
like this.

90

9780735217867 Fences.indd 90 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

Gabriel enters from the back porch. He

carries a rose in his hand.
GABRIEL: Hey, Rose . . . I got a flower for you.
(He hands it to her)
That’s a rose. Same rose like you is.
RosE: Thanks, Gabe.

GABRIEL: Troy, you ain’t mad at me is you? Them bad
mens come and put me away. You ain’t mad at me is

you?
troy: Naw, Gabe, I ain’t mad at you.
RosE: Eighteen years and you wanna come with this.

GABRIEL (TAKES A QUARTER OUT OF HIS POCKET): See what I got?

Got a brand-new quarter.
troy: Rose . . . it’s just

RosE: Ain’t nothing you can say, Troy. Ain’t no way

of explaining that.

GABRIEL: Fellow that give me this quarter had a whole
mess of them. I’m gonna keep this quarter till it

stop shining.

Rose: Gabe, go on up front now. I got some watermelon

in the Frigidaire. I’1l get you a piece.

GABRIEL: Say, Rose . . . you know I was chasing hell-
hounds and them bad mens come and get me and take

me away. Troy helped me. He come down there and

91

9780735217867 _Fences.indd 91 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

told them they better let me go before he beat
them up. Yeah, he did!

ROSE: You go on up front and I’1l get you a piece of

watermelon, Gabe. Them bad mens is gone now.

GABRIEL: Okay, Rose . . . gonna bring me some water-

melon. The kind with the stripes on it.

Gabriel goes up to the front room.

Then:

roszE: Why, Troy? Why? After all these years to come
dragging this in to me now. It don’t make no sense
at your age. I could have expected this ten or

fifteen years ago, but not now.
troy: Age ain’t got nothing to do with it, Rose.

RoszE: I done tried to be everything a wife should be.
Everything a wife could be. Been married eighteen
years and I got to live to see the day you tell
me you been seeing another woman and done fa-
thered a child by her. And you know I ain’t never
wanted no half-nothing in my family. My whole
family is half. Everybody got different fathers
and mothers . . . my two sisters and my brother.
Can’t hardly tell who’s who. Can’t never sit down
and talk about Papa and Mama. It’s your papa and

your mama and my papa and my mama
troy: Rose . . . stop it now.

roszE: I ain’t never wanted that for none of my chil-
dren. And now you wanna drag your behind in here

and tell me something like this.

92

9780735217867 Fences.indd 92 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

mRoy: You ought to know. It’s time for you to know.
RosE: Well, I don’t want to know, goddamn it!

Rose, suffocating, heads outside. Troy

follows.

INT. BASEMENT—AFTERNOON

Muffled sounds . . . Cory not sure what

he is hearing.

EXT. BACKYARD—AFTERNOON,

mroy: I can’t just make it go away. It’s done now. I

can’t wish the circumstance of the thing away.

RosE: And you don’t want to either. Maybe you want to
wish me and my boy away. Maybe that’s what you
want? Well, you can’t wish us away. I’ve got
eighteen years of my life invested in you. You
ought to have stayed upstairs in my bed where you

belong.

troy: Rose . . . now listen to me . . . we can get a
handle on this thing. We can talk this out

come to an understanding.

Rose: All of a sudden it’s “we.” Where was “we” at
when you was down there rolling around with some
godforsaken woman? “We” should have come to an

understanding before you started making a damn

93

9780735217867 Fences.indd 93 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

fool of yourself. You’re a day late and a dollar

short when it comes to an understanding with me.

moy: It’s just... She gives me a different
idea... a different understanding about my-
self. I can step out of this house and get away
from the pressures and problems . . . be a dif-
ferent man. I ain’t got to wonder how I’m gonna
pay the bills or get the roof fixed. I can just be

a part of myself that I ain’t never been.

Rose: What I want to know . . . is do you plan to con-

tinue seeing her. That’s all you can say to me.

mroy: I can sit up in her house and laugh. Do you un-
derstand what I’m saying. I can laugh out
loud . . . and it feels good. It reaches all the

way down to the bottom of my shoes.
(pause)
Rose, I can’t give that up.

RoszE: Maybe you ought to go on and stay down there

with her . . . if she a better woman than me.

moy: It ain’t about nobody being a better woman or
nothing. Rose, you ain’t to blame. A man couldn't
ask for no woman to be a better wife than you've
been. I’m responsible for it. I done locked my-
self into a pattern trying to take care of you all

that I forgot about myself.

Rosz: What the hell was I there for? That was my job,

not somebody else’s.

94

9780735217867 Fences.indd 94 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

troy: Rose, I done tried all my life to live de-
cent... to live a clean... hard... use-
ful life. I tried to be a good husband to you. In
every way I knew how. Maybe I come into the world
backwards, I don’t know. But . . . You born with
two strikes on you before you come to the plate.
You got to guard it closely . . . always looking
for the curveball on the inside corner. You can’t
afford to let none get past you. You can’t afford

a call strike.

INT. FRONT ROOM—AFTERNOON

Gabriel sits, immobile.

EXT. BACKYARD—CONTINUOUS

mroy: If you going down . . . you going down swing-
ing. Everything lined up against you. What you
gonna do. I fooled them, Rose. I bunted. When I
found you and Cory and a halfway decent job
I was safe. Couldn’t nothing touch me. I wasn’t
gonna strike out no more. I wasn’t going back to
the penitentiary. I wasn’t gonna lay in the
streets with a bottle of wine. I was safe. I had
me a family. A job. I wasn’t gonna get that last
strike. I was on first looking for one of them boys

to knock me in. To get me home.

RosE: You should have stayed in my bed, Troy.

95

9780735217867 Fences.indd 95 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

mroy: Then when I saw that gal . . . she firmed up my
backbone. And I got to thinking that if I
tried . . . I just might be able to steal second.
Do you understand, after eighteen years I wanted

to steal second.

ROSE: You should have held me tight. You should have

grabbed me and held on.

mroy: I stood on first base for eighteen years and I
thought . . . well, goddamn it... go on for

it!

Rosz: We’re not talking about baseball! We’re talking
about you going off to lay in bed with another
woman . . . and then bring it home to me. That's
what we’re talking about. We ain’t talking about

no baseball.

troy: Rose, you're not listening to me. I’m trying the
best I can to explain it to you. It’s not easy for
me to admit that I been standing in the same place

for eighteen years.

rosz: I been standing with you! I been right here with
you, Troy. I got a life too. I gave eighteen years
of my life to stand in the same spot with you.
Don’t you think I ever wanted other things? Don’t
you think I had dreams and hopes? What about my
life? What about me? Don’t you think it ever
crossed my mind to want to know other men? That I
wanted to lay up somewhere and forget about my
responsibilities? That I wanted someone to make

me laugh so I could feel good?

96

9780735217867 Fences.indd 96 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

INT. BASEMENT

Cory moves toward the basement window,

trying to hear his mother and father.

EXT. BACKYARD—CONTINUOUS

RosE: You not the only one who’s got wants and needs.
But I held on to you, Troy. I took all my feel-
ings, my wants and needs, my dreams . . . and I
buried them inside you. I planted a seed and
watched and prayed over it. I planted myself in-
side you and waited to bloom. And it didn’t take
me no eighteen years to find out the soil was hard

and rocky and it wasn’t never gonna bloom.

INT. THE FRONT ROOM

Gabriel lifts up his trumpet, holds it
high in trembling hands. His mouth is

wide-open.

EXT. BACKYARD—CONTINUOUS

RosE: But I held on to you, Troy. I held you tighter.
You was my husband. I owed you everything I had.
Every part of me I could find to give you. And up-
stairs in that room . . . with the darkness fall-
ing in on me . . . I gave everything I had to try

and erase the doubt that you wasn’t the finest man

97

9780735217867 Fences.indd 97 11/1516 1:50 PM
TROY:

ROSE:

TROY:

ROSE:

TROY

ROSE

TROY:

CORY:

ROSE:

TROY:

AUGUST WILSON

in the world, and wherever you was going... I
wanted to be there with you. ’Cause you was my
husband. ‘Cause that’s the only way I was gonna
survive as your wife. You always talking about
what you give . . . and what you don’t have to
give. But you take too. You take . . . and don’t

even know nobody’s giving!

Rose heads toward the house. Troy

grabs her arm.
You say I take and don’t give!

Troy! You’re hurting me!

You say I take and don’t give.

Troy . . . you’re hurting my arm! Let go.

: I done give you everything I got. Don’t you tell

that lie on me.
: Troy!

Don’t you tell that lie on me!

Cory rushing out of the house.

Mama!

Troy. You're hurting me.

Don’t you tell me about no taking and giving.

Cory comes up from behind Troy and
tries to tackle him. Troy, surprised,
is thrown off balance just as Cory

throws a glancing blow that catches

98

9780735217867 Fences.indd 98 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

him on the chest and knocks him down.

Troy is stunned, as is Cory.

Rose: Troy. Troy. No!
Troy gets to his feet and starts at
Cory.

Rose: Troy . . . no. Please! Troy!

Rose pulls on Troy to hold him back.
Troy stops himself.

troy (70 cory): All right. That’s strike two. You stay
away from around me, boy. Don’t you strike out.
You living with a full count. DON’T YOU STRIKE
out!

SIX MONTH SEQUENCE

We hear Little Jimmy Scott’s “Day By

Day Somewhere

Dead leaves falling.

EXT. BACKYARD

Early winter, the first fence posts are

up.

 

Cory works out feverishly.

99

9780735217867 Fences.indd 99 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

EXT. BACKYARD

Winter, snow. Cross beams connect the
posts, and the first vertical pickets

begin to shut out the abandoned house.

INT. DINING ROOM

An empty room, the table is set.

EXT. BACKYARD—NIGHT

Troy bundled against the lingering
cold, works alone. Rose watches him

from the kitchen window.

INT. TAYLORS’ BAR

Troy drinks heavily in a crowded bar.

EXT. BACKYARD

March: More pickets, the fence half

done.

INT. CHURCH

Rose kneeling in prayer.

100

9780735217867 Fences.indd 100 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

EXT. CEMETERY

Gabe sits among the tombstones eating

a sandwich.

EXT. THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE—
MORNING

It’s early April, and the weather’s
cool. Rose, looking tired, wears a
light jacket and scarf over her head.
She locks the front door and starts
down the steps. She stops to pull
weeds from among the daffodils she’s

growing in the planter-cans.

EXT. SANITATION YARD—LATER THAT.
AFTERNOON

Men stream out of the garage, Troy
among them. He sees something that
makes him stop. Rose is across the
street, waiting for him. He crosses
the street slowly. They stand looking

at one another; Then:
Rose: Troy, I want to talk to you.

troy: All of a sudden, after all this time, you want
to talk to me, huh? You ain’t wanted to talk to

me for months. You ain’t wanted to talk to me last

101

9780735217867_Fences.indd 101 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

night. You ain’t wanted no part of me then. What

you wanna talk to me about now?

Rose looks around at the men who
glance at her and Troy as they pass
by.

ROSE: Tomorrow’s Friday.

troy: I know what day tomorrow is. You think I don’t
know tomorrow’s Friday? My whole life I ain’t
done nothing but look to see Friday coming and

you got to tell me it’s Friday.
RoszE: I want to know if you’re coming home.

troy: I always come home, Rose. You know that. There

ain’t never been a night I ain’t come home.

Rose: That ain’t what I mean . . . and you know it. I

want to know if you’re coming straight home after

work.

mroy: I figure I’d cash my check . . . hang out at Tay-
lors’ with the boys . . . maybe play a game of
checkers

rosz: Troy, I can’t live like this. I won’t live like
this. You livin’ on borrowed time with me. It’s
been going on six months now you ain’t been com-

ing home.

moy: I be home every night. Every night of the year.

That’s 365 days.

Rose: I want you to come home tomorrow after work.

102

9780735217867 Fences.indd 102 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

troy: Rose . . . I don’t mess up my pay. You know that
now. I take my pay and I give it to you. I don’t
have no money but what you give me back. I just
want to have a little time to myself . . . a lit-

tle time to enjoy life.
Rose: What about me? When’s my time to enjoy life.

mroy: I don’t know what to tell you, Rose. I’m doing

the best I can.

RosE: You ain’t been coming home from work but time
enough to change your clothes and run out

and you wanna call that the best you can do?

troy: I’m going over to the hospital to see Alberta.
She went into the hospital this afternoon. Look
like she might have the baby early. I won’t be

gone long.
Troy starts to walk away.

ROSE (STOPPING HIM): Well, you ought to know. They went
over to Miss Pearl’s and got Gabe today. She said

you told them to go ahead and lock him up.
He comes back.
troy: I ain’t said no such thing. Whoever told you

that is telling a lie. Pearl ain’t doing nothing

but telling a big fat lie.

ROSE: She ain’t had to tell me. I read it on the pa-

pers.

roy: I ain’t told them nothing of the kind.

103

9780735217867 Fences.indd 103 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

Rose: I saw it right there on the papers.
roy: What it say, huh?
RoszE: It said you told them to take him.

mroy: Then they screwed that up, just the way they
screw up everything. I ain’t worried about what

they got on the paper.

Rosz: Say the government send part of his check to the

hospital and the other part to you.

troy: I ain’t got nothing to do with that if that’s
the way it works. I ain’t made up the rules about

how it work.

Rose: You did Gabe just like you did Cory. You wouldn’t
sign the paper for Cory . . . but you signed for

Gabe. You signed that paper.

mroy: I told you I ain’t signed nothing, woman! The
only thing I signed was the release form. Hell, I
can’t read, I don’t know what they had on that
paper! I ain’t signed nothing about sending Gabe

away.

A few men from the garage are watching

across the street.

RoszE: I said send him to the hospital . . . you said
let him be free... now you done went down
there and signed him to the hospital for half his
money. You went back on yourself, Troy. You gonna

have to answer for that.

moy: See now . . . you been over there talking to

104

9780735217867 Fences.indd 104 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

Miss Pearl. She done got mad ’cause she ain’t
getting Gabe’s rent money. That’s all it is.

She’s liable to say anything.
Rose: Troy, I seen where you signed the paper.

troy: You ain’t seen nothing I signed. What she doing
got papers on my brother anyway? Miss Pearl tell-

ing a big fat lie. And I’m gonna tell her about

it too!
Troy starts to walk away... Turns
around
troy: You ain’t seen nothing I signed! Say . . . you

ain’t seen nothing I signed!
Rose disappointed, walks away.

CLOSE UP on Troy, we hear a phone

ringing as we cut to

INT. DAY ROOM—WESTERN PSYCHIATRIC
HOSPITAL—DAY

The ringing phone continues over this:

CLOSE UP on Gabe, hospital pajamas,
cleaned up, haggard, sedated. A hand
brings a spoonful of mashed carrots to
Gabe’s lips. He opens his mouth. A
ruckus in the corridor outside scares
him; he closes his mouth. Then he
looks at the person who’s holding the
spoon, and opens his mouth again. The

spoon goes in.

105

9780735217867 Fences.indd 105 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

Troy sits across from Gabe, a bowl of
mashed carrots on his lap, feeding his

brother. Gabe swallows, then grins.

The ringing continues over this, and

into:

INT. ROSE AND TROY’S BEDROOM—LATE
NIGHT

Lightning flashes.

The phone’s ringing downstairs. Rose,
barely awake, switches on a small
bedside table lamp, then hurries down
to the phone. Troy opens his eyes as
he hears Rose answering it, then
silence. Troy sits up as she climbs

the stairs. Cory calls from his room:

cory (o.s.): Mama?

Rose murmurs to Cory, comes in the

bedroom, closes the door.

Rose: Troy . . . that was the hospital. Alberta had
the baby.

troy: What she have? What is it?
Rose: It’s a girl.

Troy stands, he starts getting

dressed.

troy: I better get on down to the hospital to see her.

106

9780735217867 Fences.indd 106 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

Rose: Troy

troy: Rose . . . I got to go see her now. That’s only
right... what’s the matter... the baby’s
all right, ain’t it?

RosE: Alberta died having the baby.

Roy (conruseD): Died . . . you say she’s dead? Alber-

ta’s dead?

Rosz: They said they done all they could. They couldn’t

do nothing for her.
Roy (STUNNED, OFF BALANCE): The baby? How’s the baby?
Rose: They say it’s healthy.

Troy looks around as if trying to
locate the door. Rose doesn’t know
what to do.

RosE: I wonder who’s gonna bury her.

troy: She had family, Rose. She wasn’t living in the

world by herself.

RosE: I know she wasn’t living in the world by her-
self.

troy: Next thing you gonna want to know if she had any

insurance.
Rose: Troy, you ain’t got to talk like that.

mroy: That’s the first thing that jumped out your
mouth. “Who’s gonna bury her?” Like I’m fixing to

take on that task for myself.

107

9780735217867 Fences.indd 107 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

Rose: I am your wife. Don’t push me away.

mroy: I ain’t pushing nobody away.
(starting to put on his shoes)
Just give me some space. That’s all.

One shoe on, the other in his hand, he
stands and turns on Rose with

controlled fury.

mrox: Just give me some room to breathe!

Rose is shocked by his demand. She
turns, closes the door, and leaves the
room. Alone, Troy realizes he’s
holding his shoe. He sits heavily on
the bed and puts it on. As he does he
starts talking to himself.

moy: All right... Mr. Death. See now... I’m
gonna tell you what I’m gonna do. I’m gonna take

and build me a fence around this yard.

He goes to the window and throws it
open. He leans out, breathing hard,
looking down into the dark yard, the
abandoned house beyond the fence. He
feels the darkness pull at him, making
him lean farther out. He tightens his
grip on the windowsill, and says to

the darkness:

troy: See? I’m gonna build me a fence around what be-

longs to me. And then I want you to stay on the

108

9780735217867 Fences.indd 108 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

other side. See? You stay over there until you're

ready for me.

Lights start to come on and windows
are being opened in the neighbors’

houses.

troy: Then you come on. Bring your army. Bring your
sickle. Bring your wrestling clothes. I ain’t
gonna fall down on my vigilance this time. You

ain’t gonna sneak up on me no more.

A few people call: “Shut up!” “Are you

crazy?” “Stop making a racket!” etc.
troy: When you ready for me . . . when the top of your
list say Troy Maxson . . . You come up and knock

on the front door. Ain’t nobody else got nothing

to do with this.

We see the closed door behind Troy.
Then we’re on the other side of the
door, on the landing. Rose is leaning
hard against the door, hand on the
knob, wanting to go in but knowing she
mustn’t. Troy’s voice is loud even

through the door.
mroy (0.8.): This is between you and me.

Cory comes out of his room. He walks

to his mother as Troy shouts:

mroy (o.s.): Man to man. You stay on the other side of

that fence until you ready for me.

109

9780735217867 Fences.indd 109 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

cory (sormiy, scarep): Mama, what’ s—

Rose turns to Cory, shakes her head-
“don’t talk” and tries to push him
back toward his room. He won’t go.
Rose holds on to him, and they listen,

not moving.

mroy (0.s.): Then you come up and—

EXT. THE BACKYARD—LATE NIGHT

We’re looking up at Troy, leaning out

the window, shouting:

troy: —and you knock on the front door! Anytime you

want!
(waiting for a response)
I'll be ready for you!

Troy waits again; no response. He
draws himself back into the room,
closes the window. He opens the
bedroom door. Rose and Cory are there.
No one knows what to say. Troy passes
his wife and son. They hear him
descending the stairs, then the front

door opens and slams shut.

110

9780735217867 Fences.indd 110 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

EXT. THE BACKYARD—1 WEEK LATER—
AFTERNOON

In the kitchen, the radio’s on:
Opening Day for the Pirates. The

broadcast plays throughout the scene.

Rose is on her knees, weeding the

garden.

She hears the back door open and looks
toward the porch. Troy is there,
holding a small, fair-skinned rranr i

HIS ARMS.

troy: Rose . . . I’m standing here with my daughter in
my arms. She ain’t but a wee bitty little old
thing. She don’t know nothing about grownups’ busi-

ness. She innocent . . . and she ain’t got no mama.
ROSE (CLIMBING THE sTEPs): What you telling me for, Troy?

She passes Troy and goes into the
kitchen. Troy stands still. The radio
blares the baseball game.

From inside, the sound of running
water, then kitchen clattering, then
the sound of a knife chopping
something, hard. The baby starts to
fret. Troy jounces her a little,
talking to her, sitting on the bottom
steps.

111

9780735217867_Fences.indd 111 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

moy: Well . . . I guess we’ll just sit out here on

the porch.
(calling back into the house, to Rose)

A man’s got to do what’s right for him. I ain’t

sorry for nothing I done. It felt right in my heart.

Troy waits for a response. The chopping
continues. The baby cries. Troy wipes
his finger on his shirt and holds a
knuckle to her mouth. She fastens on
his knuckle. Something that looks like

a smile passes across her face.

mroy: What you smiling at? Your daddy’s a big man. Got
these great big old hands. But sometimes he’s
scared. And right now your daddy’s scared ‘cause
we sitting out here and ain’t got no home. Oh, I
been homeless before. I ain’t had no little baby

with me. But I been homeless.

The chopping has stopped.

INT. THE KITCHEN—AFTERNOON

Rose has chopped a large pile of okra.
She holds the knife, listening.

112

9780735217867 Fences.indd 112 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

EXT. THE BACK PORCH—AFTERNOON

rox: You just be out on the road by your lonesome and
you see one of them trains coming and you just

kinda go like this
(singing, as a lullaby)

Please, Mr. Engineer, let a man ride the
line

Please, Mr. Engineer, let a man ride the
line

I ain’t got no ticket please let me ride the

blinds.
Rose comes out. Troy stands.

troy: She’s my daughter, Rose. My own flesh and blood.

I can’t deny her no more than I can deny them boys.
(pause)

You and them boys is my family. You and them
and this child is all I got in the world. So I
guess what I’m saying is . . . I’d appreciate it

if you’d help me take care of her.

Rose: Okay, Troy . . . you’re right. I'll take care
of your baby for you... ‘cause . . . like you
say... she’s innocent... and you can’t

visit the sins of the father upon the child. A

motherless child has got a hard time.

She takes the baby.

113

9780735217867 Fences.indd 113 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

Rose: From right now . . . this child got a mother.

But you a womanless man.

Rose goes back into the house with the

baby. Troy remains, frozen.

Over this, the sound of a truck idling.

EXT. A STREET IN A WEALTHY NEIGHBORHOOD—
1 MONTH LATER—EARLY
MORNING

The lawns and trees along the street
are bright spring green. A garbage
truck idles as two young african-
american collectors lift and empty
cans. Troy’s in the driver's seat,
bored, lonely. Through his rearview
mirrors he watches the collectors

talking, laughing.

A group of white high school students
come out of one of the houses,
clowning, chatting, several boys in
varsity jackets. Troy watches them.
Then he’s startled by a loud thump from
the back: in his rearview mirror, the
collectors step on board. He shifts
into first gear and the truck rolls

through the wealthy neighborhood.

114

9780735217867 Fences.indd 114 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

EXT. THE BACKYARD—AFTERNOON

Troy comes in through the side yard to
the sound of a bat hitting a baseball.
Cory, in his A&P uniform, fake bow-tie
dangling from his open collar, is
hitting the ball. The moment Cory sees
Troy, he stops. Troy looks ready to
say something. Cory tosses the bat
away, carelessly. Making a show of it
he buttons his collar, clips the tie
into place, and walks out the right
side alley, all without giving his
father a glance. Troy goes to the bat,
picks it up and puts it into its
proper place against the tree. He

turns and heads into the house.

INT. KITCHEN/FRONT ENTRANCE—
AFTERNOON

Troy comes into the kitchen, which
looks different: it’s cluttered with
baby bottles, nipples, a high chair.
Two steaming pots and one cold covered
pot are on the stove, the heat turned
off. Rose, dressed up, holds the baby
in one arm, from which a purse hangs,
stuffed with diapers and two warm
bottles. With her free hand Rose picks
up the cake.

115

9780735217867 Fences.indd 115 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

mroy: I’m coming in and everybody’s going out.

Rose: I’m taking this cake down to the church for the
bake sale. Lyons was by to see you. He stopped by
to pay you your twenty dollars. It’s laying in
there on the table.

Troy takes his pay from his pocket.
moy: Well . . . here go this money.

As Rose leaves the kitchen with the
baby and the cake:

RosE: Put it in there on the table, Troy. I'll get it.

His money still in his hand, Troy
follows her to the front door, which

he opens for her.
mrox: What time you coming back?

Rose: Ain’t no use in you studying me. It don’t matter

what time I come back.

troy: I just asked you a question, woman. What’s the

matter . . . can’t I ask you a question?
Rose: Troy, I don’t want to go into it.

She steps out onto the front porch. He
starts to follow, but she stops in the
doorway. She puts the cake down on one

of the porch chairs, turns to him:

Rose: Your dinner’s in there on the stove. All you got
to do is heat it up. And don’t you be eating the

rest of them cakes in there. I’m coming back for

116

9780735217867 Fences.indd 116 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

them. We having a bake sale at the church tomor-

row.

Rose shuts the door firmly. Troy stands
there, listening to her going down the

steps.

He stands alone in the empty house, unsure of
what to do. He flaps the money he’s holding. He
goes to the dining room table and puts his cash
next to Lyons’ twenty. He pockets the twenty and

starts for the door.

INT. TAYLORS’ BAR—LATE AFTERNOON

Troy sits alone at the bar, a generous
glass of gin before him. He takes a

sip.

Someone pulls out the stool next to
him and starts to sit. Troy looks.

It’s Bono.
Bono: Hey, Troy.
troy: Hey, what’s happening, Bono?

Bono: I just thought I’d stop by to see you. Wasn’t

no one at the house, so I figured -

troy: What you stop by and see me for? You ain’t
stopped by the house in a month of Sundays. Hell,

I must owe you money or something.

Bono: Since you got your promotion I can’t keep up

117

9780735217867 Fences.indd 117 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

with you. Used to see you every day. Now I don’t

even know what route you working.

moy: They keep switching me around. Got me out in

Greentree now . . . hauling white folks’ garbage.

Bono: Greentree, huh? You lucky, at least you ain’t
got to be lifting them barrels. Damn if they
ain’t getting heavier. I’m gonna put in my two

years and call it quits.
moy: I’m thinking about retiring myself.

Bono: You got it easy. You can drive for another five

years.

troy: It ain’t the same, Bono. It ain’t like working
the back of the truck. Ain’t got nobody to talk
to... feel like you working by yourself. Naw,

I’m thinking about retiring.
Bono nods. An awkward silence.
troy: How’s Lucille?

pono: She all right. Her arthritis get to acting up
on her sometime. Saw Rose on my way here. She go-

ing down to the church, huh?

moy: Yeah, she took up going down there. All them
preachers looking for somebody to fatten their

pockets.
(beat)
Got some gin here.

pono: Naw, thanks. I just stopped in to say hello.

118

9780735217867 Fences.indd 118 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

my: Hell, nigger . . . you can take a drink. I ain’t
never known you to say no to a drink. You ain’t

got to work tomorrow.

Bono: I just stopped by. I’m fixing to go over to Skin-
ner’s. We got us a domino game going over his

house every Friday.

troy: Nigger, you can’t play no dominoes. I used to

whup you four games out of five.
Bono: Well, that learned me. I’m getting better.
mroy: Yeah? Well, that’s all right.
Bono: Look here . . . I got to be getting on.

Troy nods as Bono slides down off the

bar stool.
Bono: Stop by sometime, huh?
troy: Yeah, I'll do that, Bono.

Bono slaps Troy on the back and starts

to go.

troy (NOT WANTING TO BE ALONE): Lucille told Rose you

bought her a new refrigerator.

Bono: Yeah, Rose told Lucille you had finally built

your fence . . . so I figured we’d call it even.
troy: I knew you would.
Bono: Yeah . . . okay. I’1l be talking to you.

mroy: Yeah, take care, Bono. Good to see you. I’m

gonna stop over.

119

9780735217867 Fences.indd 119 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

Bono: Yeah. Okay, Troy.

Bono leaves. Troy downs the rest of
his drink in one swallow. Under his

breath, he starts to sing:

mroy (stowny): Hear it ring! Hear it ring!

Had an old dog his name was Blue.

EXT. WYLIE AVENUE—RECRUITMENT OFFICE—
TWILIGHT

Troy’s singing continues over this:

troy (v.o.): You know Blue was mighty true

You know Blue was a good old dog

Cory walks home from work in his A&P
uniform. He passes an armed forces
recruiting office. In the window, a
poster: a big, handsome white Marine,

above him: we aREN’T LOOKING FOR JUST ANYONE.

moy (v.o.): Blue treed a possum in a hollow log

You know from that he was a good old dog

And below: we might be looking for
you. Cory stares at it for a long

time, as Troy’s singing continues:

EXT. BACK YARD—TWILIGHT

Cory approaches the house. He stops

when he hears his father singing.

120

9780735217867 Fences.indd 120 11/1516 1:50 PM
TROY:

cory:

TROY:

cory:

TROY:

cory

TROY:

FENCES

Old Blue died and I dug his grave

Let him down with a golden chain

Cory heads into the yard. Troy sits in
the middle of the back steps, blocking
them. The pint bottle in his hand is
nearly empty.

Every night when I hear old Blue bark!
(pause)
Blue treed a possum in Noah’s Ark!

Cory looks to the right, considering
going around to the front. Then he
decides not to. He walks up to the

steps.

I got to get by.

Say what? What’s you say?

You in my way. I got to get by.

You got to get by where? This is my house.
Bought and paid for. In full. Took me fifteen
years. And if you wanna go in my house and I’m
sitting on the steps... you say excuse me.

Like your mama taught you.
: Come on, Pop . . . I got to get by.

Cory starts to maneuver his way past
Troy. Troy grabs his leg and shoves
him back.

You just gonna walk over top of me?

121

9780735217867_Fences.indd 121 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

cory: I live here too!

moy: You just gonna walk over top of me in my own

house?

Troy stands, advancing on Cory, who

backs away, then stops.
cory: I ain’t scared of you.

troy: I ain’t asked if you was scared of me. I asked
you if you was fixing to walk over top of me in my
own house? That’s the question. You ain’t gonna

say excuse me? You just gonna walk over top of me?
cory: If you wanna put it like that.
troy: How else am I gonna put it?

cory: I was walking by you to go into the house ‘cause
you sitting on the steps drunk, singing to your-

self. You can put it like that.
rox: Without saying excuse me???
Cory doesn’t respond.

troy: I asked you a question. Without saying excuse

me???

cory: I ain’t got to say excuse me to you. You don’t

count around here no more.

mroy: Oh, I see . . . I don’t count around here no
more. You ain’t got to say excuse me to your
daddy. All of a sudden you done got so grown that
your daddy don’t count around here no more

Around here in his own house and yard that he done

122

9780735217867 Fences.indd 122 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

paid for with the sweat of his brow. You done got
so grown to where you gonna take over. You gonna
take over my house. Is that right? You gonna wear
my pants. You gonna go in there and stretch out
on my bed. You ain’t got to say excuse me ‘cause

I don’t count around here no more. Is that right?

cory (HE’sS HAD ENOUGH): That’s right. You always talking
this dumb stuff. Now, why don’t you just get out

my way.

troy: I guess you got someplace to sleep and something
to put in your belly. You got that, huh? You got
that? That’s what you need. You got that, huh?

cory: You don’t know what I got. You ain’t got to

worry about what I got.

troy: You right! You one hundred percent right! I done
spent the last seventeen years worrying about
what you got. Now it’s your turn, see? I'll tell
you what to do. You grown . . . we done estab-
lished that. You a man. Now, let’s see you act
like one. Turn your behind around and walk out
this yard. And when you get out there in the al-
ley . . . you can forget about this house. See?
"Cause this is my house. You go on and be a man
and get your own house. You can forget about
this. ’Cause this is mine. You go on and get yours

"cause I’m through with doing for you.

cory: You talking about what you did for me

what'd you ever give me?

troy: Them feet and bones! That pumping heart, nigger!

123

9780735217867 Fences.indd 123 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

I give you more than anybody else is ever gonna

give you.

cory: You ain’t never gave me nothing! You ain’t never
done nothing but hold me back. Afraid I was gonna
be better than you. All you ever did was try and
make me scared of you. I used to tremble every time
you called my name. Every time I heard your foot-
steps in the house. Wondering all the time
what’s Papa gonna say if I do this? . . . What's
he gonna say if I do that? . . . What’s Papa gonna
say if I turn on the radio? And Mama, too

she tries . . . but she’s scared of you.

moy: You leave your mama out of this. She ain’t got

nothing to do with this.

cory: I don’t know how she stand you. . . after what

you did to her.
toy: I told you to leave your mama out of this!
Troy advances toward Cory.

cory: What you gonna do . . . give me a whupping? You
can’t whup me no more. You're too old. You just

an old man.

Troy grabs Cory’s shirt and pulls Cory
to him.

mror: Nigger! That’s what you are! You just another

nigger on the street to me!
Troy throws Cory backward in the dirt.

cory: You crazy! You know that?

124

9780735217867 Fences.indd 124 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

troy: Go on now! You got the devil in you. Get on away

from me!

cory: You just a crazy old man. . . talking about I

got the devil in me.
Troy advances on Cory.

troy: Yeah, I’m crazy! If you don’t get on the other
side of that yard... I’m gonna show you how

crazy I am! Goon. . . get the hell out of my yard.

cory: It ain’t your yard. You took Uncle Gabe’s money
he got from the Army to buy this house and then

you put him out.
troy: Get your black ass out of my yard!

Troy’s advance backs Cory up against

the tree. Cory grabs up the bat.

cory: I ain’t going nowhere! Come on . . . put me out!

I ain’t scared of you.
troy: That’s my bat!

cory: Come on!

Troy walks toward Cory.
troy: Put my bat down!
cory: Come on, put me out!

Cory swings at Troy, who backs across

the yard.
cory: What’s the matter? You so bad . . . Put me out!

Troy advances toward Cory.

125

9780735217867 Fences.indd 125 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

cory (BACKING uP): Come on! Come on!

You're gonna have to use it! You wanna draw that

TROY!
you're gonna have to use it.

bat back on me

cory: Come on! Come on!

Cory swings that bat at Troy a second

time. He misses. Troy continues to

advance toward him.

troy: You’re gonna have to kill me! You wanna draw

that bat back on me. You’re gonna have to kill me.

Cory, backed up against the tree, can

go no farther. Troy taunts him. He

sticks out his head and offers him a

target.

troy: Come on! Come on!

Cory is unable to swing the bat. Troy

grabs it.

mrox: Then 1711 show you.
Cory and Troy struggle over the bat.
The struggle is fierce and fully

Troy ultimately is the

engaged.
and takes the bat from Cory

stronger,
and stands over him ready to swing. He

stops himself.
Go on and get away from around my house.

Cory, stung by his defeat, picks

126

9780735217867 Fences.indd 126

11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

himself up, walks slowly out of the
yard and up the alley.

cory: Tell Mama I’1l be back for my things.

TROY (CALLING AFTER HIM): They’1l be on the other side of
that fence!

Troy starts toward the tree with the
bat, staggering, sick exhausted, his
mouth horribly dry. He tries to

moisten it with this tongue: no use.

troy: I can’t taste nothing. Hallelujah!

I can’t taste nothing no more.

He assumes a batting posture and
begins to taunt Death, the fastball in
the outside corner.

troy: Come on! It’s between you and me now!

A static-y growl starts, building into
a roar. Troy taunts the pitcher as the

light gives way to complete darkness:

troy: Come on! Anytime you want! Come on! I be ready

for you . . . but I ain’t gonna be easy.
BLACK SCREEN

In the blackness, Rose’s voice:
Rose (v.o.): Raynell!

raynetL (v.o.): Ma’ am?

127

9780735217867 Fences.indd 127 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

Rose (v.o.): What you doing out there?

raynetL (v.o.): Nothing.

TITLE: 1965

Rose (v.o.): Girl, get in here and get dressed. What

you doing?

EXT. THE BACKYARD—MORNING

The sky is gray, dark clouds roll in.
Raynell, 7, in her nightgown, kneels
in rose’s garden, which is now much
larger. She looks up at the bedroom

window.
RAYNELL: Seeing if my garden growed.

Rose leans out of the window, her hair

up, wearing black.

RosE: I told you it ain’t gonna grow overnight. You

got to wait.
RAYNELL: It don’t look like it never gonna grow. Dag!
Rose: I told you a watched pot never boils.
RAYNELL: This ain’t even no pot, Mama.

ROSE: Get in here and get dressed. This ain’t no morn-

ing to be playing around. You hear me?

RAYNELL: Yes, ma’am.

128

9780735217867 Fences.indd 128 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

INT. THE KITCHEN AND FRONT ROOMS—
MORNING

Raynell dawdles past Bono and Lyons in
dark suits, drinking coffee. She
starts upstairs. There’s a knock at
the door. She looks up to see if her
mother is coming to answer it. She
decides to answer it herself, but it

opens. Cory comes in.

He’s 25 now, a Marine Corporal. He
carries a duffel bag. Raynell stares

at him in his dress uniform, agog.
cory: Hi.
(pause)
I bet your name is Raynell.
RAYNELL? Uh-huh.
cory: Is your mama home?
RAYNELL: Mama . . . there’s some man down here. Mama?

Raynell flies up the stairs. Cory puts

down his bag and looks around.
Rose: Cory? Cory! Lord have mercy!

Rose runs down, then stops, looking at
her son. She calls back into the
kitchen:

RosE: Look here, you all!

129

9780735217867 Fences.indd 129 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

She runs to Cory, and they embrace.
Bono and Lyons come in from the
kitchen. Raynell watches from midway

on the stairs.

Bono: Aw, looka here

Rose steps back, looking at him,

wiping tears away.
RosE: Done got all grown up!
cory: Don’t cry, Mama. What you crying about?
RosE: I’m just so glad you made it.
cory: Hey, Lyons. How you doing, Mr. Bono.

tyons: Look at you, man. Look at you. Don’t he look

good, Rose. Got them corporal stripes.
Ros: What took you so long?

cory: You know how the Marines are, Mama. They got to
get all their paperwork straight before they let
you do anything.

Rose: Well, I’m sure glad you made it. They let Lyons
come. Your Uncle Gabe’s still in the hospital.
They don’t know if they gonna let him out or not.

I just talked to them a little while ago.
Lyons: A corporal in the United States Marines.

BoNo: Your daddy knew you had it in you. He used to

tell me all the time.

Lyons: Don’t he look good, Mr. Bono?

130

9780735217867 Fences.indd 130 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

Bono: Yeah, he remind me of Troy when I first met him.
(pause)

Say, Rose, Lucille’s down at the church with
the choir. I’m gonna go down and get the pallbear-

ers lined up. I'll be back to get you all.
RosE: Thanks, Jim.
cory: See you, Mr. Bono.
Bono goes out the front door.
No one speaks. Then Lyons points to
Raynell on the stairs.
Lyons: Cory, look at Raynell. Ain’t she precious? She
gonna break a whole lot of hearts.
Raynell hides behind the banisters.

Rose: Raynell, come and say hello to your brother.

This is your brother, Cory. You remember Cory.

RAYNELL: No, ma’am.
cory: She don’t remember me, Mama.

ROSE: Well, we talk about you. She heard us talk about

you. This is your brother, Cory.
(to Raynell)
Come on and say hello.

RAYNELL: Hi.

cory: Hi. So you're Raynell. Mama told me a lot about

you.

131

9780735217867_Fences.indd 131 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

ROSE (STARTING FOR THE KITCHEN): You all c’mon and let me

fix you some breakfast. Keep up your strength.
cory: I ain’t hungry, Mama.

Lyons: You can fix me something, Rose. I’1l be there in

a minute.

RosE (To cory): Cory, You sure you don’t want nothing.

I know they ain’t feeding you right.

cory: No, Mama . . . thanks. I don’t feel like eat-

ing. I’1l get something later.

ROSE: Raynell . . . get on upstairs and get that dress

on like I told you.

Raynell scrambles upstairs as Rose

goes into the kitchen.

Lyons (Pausz): I always knew you was gonna make some-
thing out yourself. Your head was always in the
right direction. So . . . you gonna stay in

make it a career . . . put in your twenty years?

cory: I don’t know. I got six already, I think that’s

enough.

Lyons: Stick with Uncle Sam and retire early. Ain’t noth-
ing out here. I guess Rose told you what happened
with me. They got me down the workhouse. I thought

I was being slick cashing other people’s checks.
cory: How much time you doing?

yons: They give me three years. I got that beat now.

I ain’t got but nine more months. It ain’t so bad.

132

9780735217867 Fences.indd 132 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

You learn to deal with it like anything else. You
got to take the crookeds with the straights.
That's what Papa used to say. He used to say that
when he struck out. I seen him strike out three
times in a row. . . and the next time up he hit
the ball over the grandstand. Right out there in
Homestead Field. He wasn’t satisfied hitting in
the seats . . . he wanted to hit it over every-
thing! After the game he had two hundred people
standing around waiting to shake his hand. You
got to take the crookeds with the straights.

Yeah, Papa was something else.
cory: You still playing?

Lyons: Cory . . . you know I’m gonna do that. There’s
some fellows down there we got us a band. . . we
gonna try and stay together when we get out

but yeah, I’m still playing.
Rose calls from the kitchen:
Rosz: Lyons, I got these eggs in the pan.

iyons: Let me go on and get these eggs, man. Get ready

to go bury Papa.
(a beat, then)
How you doing? You doing all right?

Cory nods. Lyons touches him on the
shoulder and they share a moment of
silent grief. Lyons goes into the

kitchen. Cory looks up to the top of

the stairs and sees Raynell, in her

133

9780735217867 Fences.indd 133 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

dress, studying him with excited

curiosity.
RAYNELL: Hi.
cory: Hi.

She comes down a couple of steps,

curious.
RAYNELL: Did you used to sleep in my room?
cory: Yeah . . . that used to be my room.

RAYNELL: That’s what Papa call it. “Cory’s room.” It

got your football in the closet.
Rose calling from the kitchen

ROSE: Raynell, get in there and get them good shoes

on!

RAYNELL: Mama, can’t I wear these? Them other one hurt

my feet.

Rose: Well, they just gonna have to hurt your feet for
a while. You ain’t said they hurt your feet when

you went down to the store and got them.

RAYNELL: They didn’t hurt then. My feet done got big-

ger.

RosE: Don’t you give me no back talk now. You get in

there and get them shoes on.

Raynell looks at her brand-new
brother . . . reluctantly, she obeys

her mother. Cory makes his way to the

134

9780735217867 Fences.indd 134 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

kitchen, passing his brother who is

wiping his plate clean.

INT. KITCHEN—MORNING

Cory enters the kitchen. He looks at
the photos on the wall noticing that
JFK and Martin Luther King have been
added next to the photo of Jesus. He
looks at his mother, then heads out

into the yard.

EXT. BACKYARD—MORNING

Cory comes down the steps into the
yard, taking it all in. He sees Troy’s
bat leaning against the tree. He walks

toward it as he hears

ROSE (AS SHE COMES DOWN BACK STEPS): Ain’t too much changed.
He still got that piece of rag tied to that tree.
He was out here swinging that bat. I was just
ready to go back in the house. He swung that bat
and then he just fell over. Seem like he swung
it and stood there with this grin on his
face . . . and then he just fell over. They car-
ried him on down to the hospital but I knew there
wasn’t no need . . . why don’t you come on in

the house.

cory: Mama . . . I got something to tell you. I don’t

135

9780735217867 Fences.indd 135 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

know how to tell you this . . . but I’ve got to

tell you . . . I’m not going to Papa’s funeral.

RoszE: Boy, hush your mouth. That’s your daddy you
talking about. I don’t want hear that kind of talk
this morning. I done raised you to come to this?
You standing there all healthy and grown talking

about you ain’t going to your daddy’s funeral?
cory: Mama . . . listen

Rose: I don’t want to hear it, Cory. You just get that

thought out of your head.

cory: I’ve got to say no to him. One time in my life

I’ve got to say no.

RoszE: Don’t nobody have to listen to nothing like
that. I know you and your daddy ain’t seen eye to
eye, but I ain’t gotta listen to that kind of talk
this morning. Disrespecting your daddy ain't
gonna make you a man, Cory. You got to find a way
to come to that on your own. Not going to your

daddy’s funeral ain’t gonna make you a man.

Cory looks around, trying to find what
to say. Then:

cory: The whole time I was growing up . . . living in
his house . . . Papa was like a shadow that fol-
lowed you everywhere. It weighed on you and sunk
into your flesh. It would wrap around you and lay
there until you couldn’t tell which one was you
anymore. That shadow digging in your flesh. Trying

to crawl in. Trying to live through you. I’m just

136

9780735217867 Fences.indd 136 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

saying I’ve got to find a way to get rid of that

shadow, Mama.
ROSE: You just like him. You got him in you good.
cory: Don’t tell me that, Mama.
ROSE: You Troy Maxson all over again.
cory: I don’t want to be Troy Maxson. I want to be me.

Rose: You can’t be nobody but who you are, Cory. That
shadow wasn’t nothing but you growing into your-
self. You either got to grow into it or cut it
down to fit you. But that’s all you got to make
life with. That’s all you got to measure yourself
against that world out there. Your daddy wanted
you to be everything he wasn’t . . . and at the
same time he tried to make you into everything he
was. I don’t know if he was right or wrong
but I do know he meant to do more good than he

meant to do harm.

She stops, overwhelmed. Cory puts his
hand on her hand. She takes his hand,

squeezes it, turns it over, holding on.

ROSE: Sometimes when he touched he bruised. And some-

times when he took me in his arms he cut.
(beat)

When I first met your daddy I thought, “Here is
aman I can lay down with and make a baby.” That’s
the first thing I thought when I seen him

“Rose Lee, here is a man that you can open your-

137

9780735217867 Fences.indd 137 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

self up to and be filled to bursting. Here is a man
that can fill all them empty spaces you been tip-

ping around the edges of.”
(beat)

When your daddy walked through the house he was
so big he filled it up. That was my first mistake.
Not to make him leave some room for me. But I
wanted a house that I could sing in, and that’s
what your daddy gave me. I didn’t know to keep up
his strength I had to give up little pieces of
mine. I took on his life as mine and mixed up the
pieces so that you couldn’t hardly tell which was
which anymore. It was my choice. It was my life and
I didn’t have to live it like that. But that’s what
life offered me in the way of being a woman and I
took it. I grabbed hold of it with both hands. By
the time Raynell came into the house . . . I didn’t
want to make my blessing off of nobody’s misfor-
tune, but I took on to Raynell like she was all

them babies I had wanted and never had.
The phone rings.

RoszE: Like I’d been blessed to relive a part of my
life. And if the Lord see fit to keep up my
strength . . . I’m gonna do her just like your
daddy did you . . . I’m gonna give her the best

of what’s in me.
Raynell comes out with her old shoes on.

RAYNELL? Mama . . . Reverend Tolliver on the phone.

138

9780735217867 Fences.indd 138 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

Rose goes into the house.
RAYNELL: Hi.
cory: Hi.
RAYNELL: You in the Army or the Marines?
cory: Marines.
RAYNELL: Papa said it was the Army. Did you know Blue?
cory: Blue? Who’s Blue?
RAYNELL: Papa’s dog what he sing about all the time.

cory (SINGING): Hear it ring! Hear it ring!
I had a dog his name was Blue
You know Blue was mighty true
You know Blue was a good old dog
Blue treed a possum in a hollow log
You know from that he was a good old dog.

Hear it ring!

Raynell, embarrassed, delighted, joins

in.

CORY AND RAYNELL? Blue treed a possum out on a limb
Blue looked at me and I looked at him
Grabbed that possum and put him in a sack
Blue stayed there till I came back
Old Blue’s feets was big and round
Never allowed a possum to touch the ground.
Old Blue died and I dug his grave
I dug his grave with a silver spade

Let him down with a golden chain

139

9780735217867 Fences.indd 139 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

And every night I call his name
Go on Blue, you good dog you
Go on Blue, you good dog you

RAYNELL: Blue laid down and died like a man

Blue laid down and died

cory (stRuceLins): Blue laid down and died like a man

Now he’s treeing possums in the Promised Land.

CORY AND RAYNELL: I’m gonna tell you this to let you
know

Blue’s gone where the good dogs go.
Rose comes to the door.

Rose: Cory, we gonna be ready to go in a minute.

 

cory (T0 RAYNELL): You go on in the house and change
them shoes like Mama told you so we can go to Pa-

pa’s funeral.

RAYNELL: Okay, I’1l be back.

Raynell hurries into the house. Cory gets up,
crosses over to the tree. Rose stands at the screen
door watching him. She takes a look at the threat-
ening sky, about to return to the house, when she
sees Gabriel. He’s older but healthier, more vi-
tal, in a new suit and a hat. One arm is behind

his back. Rose is speechless with surprise.
GABRIEL: Hey, Rose!
ROSE: Gabe?

GaBRIEL: I’m here, Rose. Hey Rose, I’m here.

140

9780735217867 Fences.indd 140 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

Rose: Lord
(calling back to the house)
Look here, Lyons!

Lyons, then Bono come out from the

house.

Lyons: See, I told you, Rose . . . I told you they’d

let him come.
cory: How you doing, Uncle Gabe?
Lyons: How you doing, Uncle Gabe?

Gabriel looks at each of them, then
back to Rose. He takes his hand from

behind him and holds his trumpet aloft.

GABRIEL: Hey, Rose. It’s time. It’s time to tell Saint

Peter to open the Gates.

Not knowing what she’s agreeing to,

Rose nods.
GABRIEL: Troy, you ready?

Gabriel waits for an answer. Raynell
comes out on the porch and hides
behind Rose, shy. Gabe smiles at her,

and she returns his smile.

GABRIEL: You ready, Troy. I’m gonna tell Saint Peter

to open the Gates. You get ready now.
Gabriel puts the trumpet to his lips,

two decades of waiting for this moment

141

9780735217867_Fences.indd 141 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

finally over. He inhales and blows into
the horn. No sound. Gabriel blows

again, a huge effort: Nothing.

Then Gabe begins to dance, slow and
strange, eerie, skeletal and life-
giving, a dance of atavistic signature
and ritual. Lyons goes to Gabe,
embracing him, trying to stop him.

Gabriel pushes Lyons away.

He points the trumpet at the ground and
inhales as he arcs the horn upwards
till he’s on his toes, closing his
eyes, putting the mouthpiece to his

lips; Gabriel blows once more, and:

From the tarnished, battered bell of
the broken trumpet comes an ear-
splitting note, growing higher and
louder till it’s almost like a woman's

scream.

In the clouds directly above Gabe, a
small aperture opens up and a pillar
of brilliant light descends, bathing
Gabriel and his horn in gold. The

trumpet’s blast stops; the silence is

huge and abrupt.

CLOSE-UP: Gabriel, his face raised up,
bathed in light. He lowers his
trumpet. He says to God:

casRIEL: That’s the way that go!

142

9780735217867 Fences.indd 142 11/1516 1:50 PM
FENCES

The camera begins to pull away, up and
up. Rose goes to Gabriel, Raynell
following behind her. Then Raynell

runs ahead of her mother.

CLOSE-UP: Raynell’s small hand taking
hold of Gabe’s hand. The camera is
high above the yard; the men have gone
inside, and Rose is behind them.
Raynell leads Gabriel behind Rose.

EXT. FRONT PORCH

Bono leaves the house first, followed

by Cory and Lyons.

Twenty black cars wait at the curb, a
flower car behind them, and then the
hearse. Neighbors have begun gathering

on both sides of the street.

Bono goes to the first car as Lyons

gets into the second.

Cory waits outside by the open car
door. Raynell comes out of the house,
leading Gabe; Bono motions for her to
come to the first car, and she does. He
opens the rear door for them, and

Raynell and Gabe get in.

Rose comes out of the house, Bono

watches. She walks up to Cory, grabs

143

9780735217867 Fences.indd 143 11/1516 1:50 PM
AUGUST WILSON

him and holds him tight. She gets in

the car and Cory climbs in after her.

Bono gives the roof of the car a loud
slap, then climbs in and shuts the
door. The first car pulls out; the

others follow.

People line the street. Men take off
their hats as the funeral cortege goes
down the hill. Beyond the Hill, the

towers of Pittsburgh rising.

144

9780735217867 Fences.indd 144 11/1516 1:50 PM
